Sunny: Hey, hello everyone, I'm audible. Can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny: Okay, so let's start with the session, let's start with the class.
Sunny: Give me a moment, guys.
Sunny: Just allow me a minute, okay?
Sunny: Okay, guys, can you see my Zoom screen? Is it visible to all of you? Can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny: And I think I am also visible, correct?
Sunny: Just give me a quick thumbs up so that I can start with the session.
Sunny: Yeah, good evening, good evening to all of you. Let's, begin, let's start with the class.
Sunny: Mmm… great.
Sunny: Chris, I think all the resources and all, everything is updated. Can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny: And even I shared the solution of the assignment. Have you checked with the solution of the assignment?
Sunny: So, this is all the recording, you can check out all the recordings over here, and I think all the recording and the resources, everything is up-to-date over here. So, if you will go and check out the last class, so inside the last class resource section, you will find out all the resources of the previous class.
Sunny: Got it?
Sunny: Sonia is asking where the solution is shared. I already, shared over the GitHub. If you're not, checking with my GitHub, I think you are missing, then.
Sunny: Please check out with the, with this repository. Fullist Tech Generative AI Bootcamp 1.0.
Sunny: This repository is completely dedicated to all the resources, okay?
Sunny: All the class-related resources.
Sunny: Here is the solution, no?
Sunny: Sonia? Si.
Sunny: Someone is saying I'm not audible. Guys, can you please confirm if I'm audible or not?
Sunny: I think I am audible, correct?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So guys, here Rahul is with me. Rahul, you are there?
Sunny: If you can hear me.
Rahul ops: Yes, ambulance.
Sunny: Your voice is, like, a bit low.
Rahul ops: Oh, hello, hello.
Sunny: Can you speak loudly, Rahul? Hello?
Rahul ops: Just wait.
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: Okay, guys, so we have something for all of you. So, Rahul, will announce something.
Sunny: So, he's here for providing you some information. So yeah, Rahul, if your mic is fixed, then, you can go ahead now.
Rahul ops: Is I'm audible?
Sunny: Yeah, you are audible, but I think it's still a bit low. Guys, everyone able to hear Rahul?
Sunny: Can you please confirm in the chat if you can hear Rahul?
Rahul ops: Yes.
Sunny: Yeah, now it is perfect. Yeah, Raul, you can go ahead.
Rahul ops: Hi, everyone. So, myself, Rahul, actually, I'm looking ops at Krishnak Academy. So, I am here to give you something, like, excitement news. Like, we have received some
Rahul ops: like, job requirement from, Walmart, and I guess I… you would receive an, like, job description and all detail over mail also.
Rahul ops: And I am also sharing, wait, hold on.
Rahul ops: Like, I'm also sharing a Google Form link over the chat, so please go through all the details, and make sure to fill out all the fields, as it is mandatory, okay? So make sure to fill out all the fields, okay? It's basically based on Bangalore, India.
Rahul ops: Okay.
Rahul ops: You can fill out the form. All the description has been mentioned over the
Rahul ops: like, form, Google Form, itself, okay?
Sunny: So guys, you are able to see the Google Form, correct?
Rahul ops: No, it's basically, you know, it's not a remote job, okay? So, first of all, you should go and fill all the details. After that, you will receive a callback, okay, according to your shortlisted profile, okay? So, you will receive a callback from
Rahul ops: Walmart, and then your interview process will start.
Rahul ops: Like, prior no experience, at behalf, just they have, like, they have, demanded, like, some skill set that is already mentioned over in the form.
Rahul ops: Okay, so you can go through all the, like, skill set that they want, and if you fulfill all the requirements or all the skill set that, it mentioned over the Google Form, then you can apply.
Rahul ops: Yes, yes, it's all technical.
Rahul ops: Okay, guys, so… and please make sure to fill out as soon as possible. The link is also available on your mail.
Rahul ops: And as well as on community. So, make sure to fill out as soon as possible. It might be in hour, or in, like, in hour, it might get logged, okay? So, please, fill out as soon as possible.
Rahul ops: Okay, okay guys, thank you. Over to you.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, Rahul.
Sunny: So, guys, you got it, correct? You can fill out this form. Actually, we have a requirement from the Walmart.
Sunny: And related to that, only Rahul has shared this form. So you can fill out this form, and here is a complete JD. So in JD, I think there is not a much thing, right? So they're looking for the good coding skills, SQL, Python, leveraging AI, exposure to AI.
Sunny: And good analytical skill, okay? Analytical skill means what? So you can evaluate the problem statement, you can understand the business requirement, you can interpret that, okay? You have a good exposure of the analytical tool, analytical tool over the different, different cloud and all. Okay, so that is, if you know all those things, then, definitely you can.
Sunny: Apply, okay? So, you just need to fill your form, email address, phone number, and for which role you are applying.
Sunny: Right? So you need to mention that also. Now, data science manager, so this person, basically, see, if you are applying for this particular person, for this particular job role, means they are expecting more AI over here, right? Manager analytics, basically, so here they are asking for the techno-functional kind of role, okay? So you should be good with your
Sunny: with your representation skill, analytical tool, right? You should be able to interpret the business, use case and all, and you would be the… you will be the bridge, basically, between the, main development team and the business, okay? And advanced analytics, again, it is, like, the extended role of this manager, analytics only.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys?
Sunny: So you just need to be, like, focused on this skill set. If you are good to go with all this skill set, then you can apply via this form.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Even I shared this form inside the, inside your committee chat also. You can check it over there. Got it?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: Can you start the class? All this detail people will go through.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: I think you are in, like, very hurry, correct, Bhaskar?
Sunny: See, people will have a doubt, right? So, people are asking in the chat, that's why I'm explaining, right?
Sunny: Great, guys. So, let's begin, let's start, and, how many of you joined my previous session, guys?
Sunny: And yeah, so you will get, basically this kind of drive and all everything from our end on a regular basis.
Sunny: from the different, different companies, guys, okay? So, not only this one, by end of this course, basically, from so many different, different companies. So, be ready, okay, be ready with your skill set and all, everything, and if you have an experience, your prior experience, right, you have to mention that also inside your resume. Along with that, on top of it, you have to be mentioned this AI-related stuff.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? So both, like, both thing is important. If you have any prior experience, you can mention that also.
Sunny: Good?
Sunny: Just fill out the form, you will get all the information, how many interview rounds would be there, and what they are going to be asked, and all. Everything, basically. Okay?
Sunny: So, guys, in the previous class, we were talking about, the transformer. I think I started with the transformer, so how many of you, you joined the previous session? I think already, see, one session is already there with respect to the transformer. You can check out over there.
Sunny: If you are new joining, then first check out the previous session, previous classes, and then, guys,
Sunny: you can join this current live session also. So, so far, I, took around 10 sessions, okay, 9 to 10 sessions. So, there, basically, we discussed about the encoding, embedding, and the transformer, okay?
Sunny: embedding, encoding, I taught you in very depth, so that we can understand,
Sunny: So that, basically, we can utilize this embedding and encoding role in our rack chapter also, because there, it is going to be play a very crucial role, right? Now, we are into the transformer, and yes, this is going to be a second session of the transformer, right?
Sunny: So, let's begin, let's start, and let me give you the quick recap. So, all the notes and all, everything is there over the dashboard itself, if… sorry, over the dashboard and inside the GitHub repository also. So, let me show you the previous class, handwritten notes. So, here is the handwritten note, guys.
Sunny: you will get, like, the complete detail, whatever I taught in the session, inside, this notes itself, okay?
Sunny: So, see, this is the complete nodes. So, if you wanted to start with a transformer, you can go ahead with these particular nodes. Now, we'll deep dive into the architecture. First, we'll try to understand the encoder part of that.
Sunny: And, then, we'll discuss about the different other concept of the transformer. And even I will show you in terms of coding also, right? And right after this chapter, guys, I will move to the fine-tuning part.
Sunny: Now, guys, here, basically, you will get all the handwritten notes. Now, each and every link, basically, I mentioned inside the Notion, so I've given you over here, right? So, this, is, the entire link, all the link, basically, which I shared throughout my session.
Sunny: Now guys, one more thing. So, in the previous session, I discussed about the Mesh API. Yes or no? So, have you gone through with this Mesh API?
Sunny: Have you used any LLM, through this mesh API?
Sunny: If you haven't used, guys, please check out this Mesh API. Even we can use it in our solution. So going forward, we are going to be building an application using the rack concept, using the agent concept. So there, basically, we can read the model using this Mesh API, okay? And, I will share one code also, so that you will get some discount as well, if you are purchasing any model, anything from here from the Mesh API.
Sunny: So, after the break, guys, I will share all those details, right? But guys, if you haven't used, please check out the Smash API. And, even I shared one Google Form with all of you, so please write your feedback inside the Google Form.
Sunny: So that we can share with their respective team, okay? So, we got one collaboration, actually, so, they are… they have asked some feedback, right? So, they told us, like, how the student is feeling, like, either this is good or not, what is the speed of the execution.
Sunny: Okay, if you are using the Smash API, then, definitely you can write those feedback inside the Google Form. I shared that Google Form inside the community chat. You can check out over there. Got it, guys?
Sunny: So, all this detail, everything is there inside the GitHub only. Now, let's start with the transformer.
Sunny: So, this is going to be a second class of the transformer, and now…
Sunny: We'll deep dive into that. So I hope, guys, my screen is visible to all of you. Can you please confirm in the chat if you can see my blackboard?
Sunny: Yes, Satis, don't worry, I'll come to that, okay? Please.
Sunny: So, over here, guys, you can see, so, we are going to be discuss, what we are going to be discuss, the encoder side of the transformer, okay?
Sunny: So, let's start, let's, discuss, one by one, each and every component of this transformer. So, we are learning this transformer, for the interview perspective, so I'll tell you whatever thing they might ask you from the transformer.
Sunny: And along with that, guys, we can understand the fundamental of the large language model, because this transformer, actually, it is a base, it is a fundamental architecture of all the large language models. Got it?
Sunny: Great, guys. So, if we are talking about a transformer, right, so this is the original architecture of the transformer, and if I can show you the research paper of that, so just a second, I can show you that.
Sunny: And I hope, guys, you have gone through, you have gone through with the, JLMAR blog I shared in the previous class. How many of you, you have seen that blog?
Sunny: Have you gone through with the research paper? And even I have shown you how to interpret this research paper. Just simply provide this research paper to the cloud or to the ChatGPT. It will summarize for all of you. Yes?
Sunny: Okay, so if you haven't gone through, guys, you can go through with those, blog and research paper, just for the additional information. But don't worry, guys, I'll, discuss each and everything, over here itself, okay?
Sunny: So, this is the original research paper of the transformer, and here, guys, you can see, so this is the architecture which they introduced. So, inside this architecture, we have some…
Sunny: important concept to understand, which people might ask you in an interview, right? So, we are going to be decode all those concepts over here inside this particular class. So, first, I'll start from the… so first, guys, I will start from the encoder only.
Sunny: So, here is the architecture. So, inside this particular architecture, on the one side, on one side, we have, encoder.
Sunny: And on the other side, we have a decoder. So, can anyone tell me what is an encoder side and what is a decoder side?
Sunny: You can mention inside the chat. So this is what? This is the encoder side, guys.
Sunny: Okay, this one.
Sunny: And this is going to be what… this is going to be a decoder side, right-hand side.
Sunny: this is going to be a decoder site. Now, what an interview question? They might ask you, they might ask you, so I'll discuss those as well, okay? And,
Sunny: Now, first, we'll go through with the encoder site.
Sunny: So, first guys, what I'll do, I'll explain you over here. I'll write over here, I'll draw over here. So, we're talking about a transformer. So, just guys, see, I'm drawing over here, okay? So, we're talking about, we're talking about what transformer, so we have two sides of that.
Sunny: Right? The first side of the transformer is called the encoder.
Sunny: And the second side of the transformer, which is called… decoder, guys, okay?
Sunny: So what I have over here, we have an encoder, and we have a decoder. So first, we'll start from the encoder itself, okay? First, I'll explain to you the encoder part only. So, let me write over here, so this is going to be what, guys?
Sunny: This is going to be encoder, okay? You can revise this concept from this particular notes only later on.
Sunny: And?
Sunny: coder.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the other side, so this is called the
Sunny: decoder, okay? Now, one question to all of you guys, so, if we're talking about the original architecture of the transformer.
Sunny: So, for which problem statement this transformer architecture was trained? May I know in the chat, for which problem statement they have trained this transformer architecture, if we're talking about the original research paper.
Sunny: So, they have trained this particular architecture for the machine translation. In the previous class only, I discussed that, right? Now, guys, may I know, so I think in the previous class also, I discussed one thing. We're talking about the encoder, so we can have multiple encoder and decoder, correct?
Sunny: So over here, what I can do, I can draw the extended version of it.
Sunny: So let me draw the extended version of this particular architecture. So we're talking about the, we're talking about the transformer, right? So, here is a…
Sunny: extended version of it. So, there could be multiple encoder and decoder. Now, guys, may I know how many encoder they have used inside the original research paper? How many encoder and decoder they have used inside the original research paper?
Sunny: So, they have used 6 encoders. So, let me write over here. So, they were, they have used the 6 encoder. So, 1, 2,
Sunny: 3… 1, 2, 3… 4… 5.
Sunny: And 6. Okay.
Sunny: So, we were having 6 encoder inside a transformer. Okay, and we're talking about the decoder side, so they have used, 6 decoder, right? 6 decoder. Now, guys, how many encoder and decoder we can take? How many encoder and decoder we can consider? We can consider as many as encoder and decoder.
Sunny: We can consider as many as encoder and decoder.
Sunny: Right? So this is what… the white one, basically, it's going to be an encoder. Let me highlight over here.
Sunny: The white one, basically, it's going to be what? It's going to be an encoder. And the yellow one, basically, it's going to be what? It's going to be a decoder. So I can, again, highlight over here.
Sunny: So you can utilize these notes again, just to revise, the concept, okay? It will help you whenever you are appearing in an interview, you can, revise this concept.
Sunny: You can revise this concept, using this particular nodes. So, this is, going to be what, guys? This is going to be an encoder. Let me write over here.
Sunny: encoder.
Sunny: And this is going to be what? This is going to be a decoder.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about a stack of encoder or a stack of the decoder. Let me write over here.
Sunny: We're talking about… is stack.
Sunny: of encoder.
Sunny: Or, a stack of decoder, Or stack of decoder.
Sunny: Correct, guys?
Sunny: So, this is what… this is a hyperparameter.
Sunny: So this is what guys tell me, this is a… hyperparameter.
Sunny: Now, hyperparameter means what?
Sunny: Hyperparameter means that Hyperparameter means what, guys?
Sunny: Hyperparameter means we can choose as many as value. It's a as many as value, okay? So, as many as value means, it's an experimental value.
Sunny: Right? Hyperparameter means what? It's a… Experimental value.
Sunny: It is what, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: Udissa?
Sunny: Experimental.
Sunny: value.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So I capped, so what I did, guys, I capped the explanation about it. Let me show you one of the slides, and I can, even explain you that particular thing, right? So, over here, guys, I capped the explanation about this particular concept. So, let me copy this particular information.
Sunny: And I can, basically keep it over there, okay? And we can understand why, basically, they took the stack of the encoder, and why, why they took, the stack of the encoder and the decoder. So I hope, guys, this slide is visible to all of you. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Is it visible to all of you? Can you please confirm in the chat if you can see this particular slide?
Sunny: So, over here, guys, see, what I was explaining you, I was explaining you, we were taking encoder blog, right? 6 encoder blog, or 6 decoder blog.
Sunny: Now, how basically it looks like, let me show you that. So, what I can do, I can add on one more page over here, inside the note itself, and then I can explain you that part, okay? How, basically, it looks like, actually.
Sunny: So, over here, what I can do, this is the page, just a second.
Sunny: I can add on one more new page.
Sunny: Yeah, so I can add on one more new page, and I can explain you how this thing looks like. So this is the transformer architecture, guys, okay? I'm just going to be copy this architecture over here, this one.
Sunny: Right? So I'm just going to be copy this architecture over here. Now see. From here, you can see this is the encoder part, okay? So I'm just going to be take an encoder part.
Sunny: So, this is a one encoder. This encoder, which you can see over here, this is a one encoder, okay? So, here, it's going to be a stack of the encoder, whenever they are going to be processed the data from the encoder. So, it's going to be a stack of the encoder. So, let me take this particular encoder.
Sunny: And let me show you the stack, means how this information might be processed, okay? So, over here, this is the architecture, and this is the encoder. Let me stack the encoder. So, what I'm going to do, guys, I'm just going to be creating a stack of the encoder.
Sunny: So this is what, this is my first encoder, means the information is coming from here, then this is the second one, okay? This is what, this is the second one, now this is the third one.
Sunny: Right? This is the third one. Now, over here, I can create one more. This is the fourth one. We can create as many as a stack of the encoder, okay? So this is going to be a… this is going to be what? This is going to be a fifth one. And over here, I can create a sixth one also. Let me create one more. So this is going to be a sixth one.
Sunny: So whenever we are processing our data, guys, right, so whenever we are processing our data, so it's not going to be a single encoder, it's going to be a stack of the encoder. And in the original research paper, basically, they took the sixth encoder, okay? So this is going to be first, this is going to be second, this is going to be third, this is going to be fourth, this is going to be fifth, and this is going to be sixth.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? I'll come to the encoder, okay? I will explain you the detail of the encoder. I'll discuss that, right? So, over here, guys, all this encoder was the identical.
Sunny: Right? Now, why 6, guys? Because it is an experimental value. We can take as many as value. This 6, basically, it's an experimental value, right? So, whenever we are passing any sort of an input form here, whenever we are passing any sort of an input form here.
Sunny: Okay, so let's say we are passing input from this particular encoder, this one.
Sunny: What we are passing, guys, we are passing the input from this particular encoder.
Sunny: Now, what we are getting is, we are getting an output, okay? The data is being processed.
Sunny: The database is being processed, and from this particular stack, from this particular encoder, what we are getting, we are getting output.
Sunny: We can have as many as encoder, okay? As many as encoder, basically, we can keep inside our architecture. So I kept the explanation of it, just wait for some time. So here is 1, 2, 3…
Sunny: then 4, then 5, and then 6. This 6 value, basically, it is coming from where? It is coming from the research paper, right? It is coming from the research paper. And now, whatever encoder you are seeing over here, whatever encoder you are seeing over here, it is all an identical encoder.
Sunny: What is the meaning of the identical?
Sunny: Can anybody tell me what is the meaning of the identical? Identical is nothing. Identical, basically, it is the same one, okay?
Sunny: Identical means what? Same architecture, same encoder. Getting my point, guys? Right? Now there… now, over here, the quotient comes, right? Over here, the quotient comes, why…
Sunny: Why the stack of the… why the stack?
Sunny: of the… By the stack of the encoder.
Sunny: or decoder.
Sunny: Okay? Why, basically, they were considering… why, basically, they were considering the stack of the encoder and decoder? Don't worry, guys, we'll understand the working of the encoder in a very, very detail, right? So, why, basically, the stack of the encoder and decoder, and this is the question.
Sunny: So, over here, I've given you the explanation of this particular question, and I think you can see this slide. So, just focus on this slide, right? Just focus on this slide. So, what I mentioned, why 6 encoder blocks? Again, it is not fixed, right? It is a hyperparameter value.
Sunny: It is what? It is a hyperl parameter.
Sunny: hyperparameter.
Sunny: value. Hyperparameter value means what? It is a experimental value.
Sunny: It is an experimental value. Right, so from paper, basically, from the original transformer paper, inside the original transformer paper, they have used 6th layer of the encoder and 6th layer of the decoder. Now, what is the reason behind it? Why this stack is important? As I've given you the question, why this stack? Why?
Sunny: The stack, why the stack is important.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: why the stack is important. So here is the reason, guys. Because this tag is important, it's going to be capture the deeper relationship inside the data, it's going to be understand the longer context, okay? And it's going to be built the hierarchical meaning.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys. So the sentence, the data, basically, which we are providing, the data could be very, very long.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: The data, basically, it could be very, very long.
Sunny: To decode the data, to understand the data, or to capture the longer context, or the deeper relationship, deeper relationship of the data, okay, deeper relationship of the data, right? Deeper relationship inside the data, we use the stack. Stack means what? Multiple encoder, or multiple decoder.
Sunny: multiple.
Sunny: encoder.
Sunny: multiple encoder, and… Multiple.
Sunny: decoder.
Sunny: multiple encoder and multiple decoder. Now, how this encoder and decoder have been arranged? Can anyone tell me? It is arranged vertically.
Sunny: This is… this encoder and decoder arranged vertically.
Sunny: Getting my point? And this is called the stack, right? Now, we're talking about the modern model. Now, guys, tell me, guys, this, all the model, it's based on the transformer architecture?
Sunny: Can anyone tell me yes or no? This, all the models are based on the transformer architecture? Yes. This all the model, basically, it is based on the transformer architecture. So we're talking about the bird, guys, right? You know about the bird model. So inside the BERT model, how many, layers was there of the encoder and decoder? See?
Sunny: 12 layers. If we're talking about the BERT large, 24 layer. If we're talking about the GPT model, so they are 12 to 96, basically.
Sunny: And whatever model you are seeing, the Llama, right? Llama model, Mistral model, okay. So there, guys, this, stack is going to be a deeper.
Sunny: This stack is going to be a deeper.
Sunny: This is tag is going to be a deeper.
Sunny: So if someone is going to be asked you in an interview, if someone is going to be asked you in an interview.
Sunny: how many encoder and decoder they have used, what was the stack of the encoder and decoder, so you can say in the original research paper, they have used 6, but in the modern LLM, guys, in the modern LLM, it could be anything, okay, between 12 to 100, and even more than that.
Sunny: And what is the reason of that? The reason, basically, is this one. It's going to be capture the deeper understanding, deeper relation of the data, it's going to be understand the longer context.
Sunny: Okay, and it's going to be built a hierarchical meaning, right? Now, over here, guys, I've written one example.
Sunny: just read out this particular example, and with that, guys, your understanding will be a bit more clear, and even you can explain this particular thing, even you can explain this particular thing inside the interview. If we're talking about the GPT model, so inside the GPT model, they have used a decoder part of the transformer.
Sunny: Decoder part of the… Transformer.
Sunny: Decoder part of what? Decoder part of the transformer. So, can we not create a stack of the decoder? Can we not keep the multiple decoder?
Sunny: We can keep the multiple decoder also, no? Right? So, similar to the encoder, we can keep the multiple decoder as well, okay? So, we can keep the multiple decoder also. So, here you can see, I capped the 6 encoder. Now, similar to that, it could be a multiple decoder also, in the same way.
Sunny: Right? If we're talking about the GPT model, guys, so let me talk… let me show you over here how, basically, they cap, the 96. So, this is the decoder, guys, this is the decoder, this one.
Sunny: Okay, this is what? This is the decoder part.
Sunny: So, they cap the 96th decoder.
Sunny: They capped how many decoder? 96 decoder they capped. Okay, so I'm just going to be what? I'm just going to be copy and paste this decoder over here.
Sunny: Just a second, what's… where it's going to be copy?
Sunny: okay. I copied…
Sunny: It's not coming… just a second, guys. Okay, I'm keeping that thing also, so that you can understand. And don't worry, guys, we are going to be understand the working of the decoder in a detail, right? So just give me a moment. I'm coming to that part. I will explain the working of the decoder as well. So this is what, guys, this is a decoder. Now, there could be a…
Sunny: 96 decoder. Okay, how many decoder could be? There could be 96 such decoder.
Sunny: Okay. Again, I can import.
Sunny: So, here, what I'm going to do, I'm going to be insert this particular image one more time.
Sunny: Okay, so like this…
Sunny: How many decoder would be there, guys? Inside the GPT model you'll be talking about? So, there would be…
Sunny: 96 such decoder, okay? 96 such decoders, so I can keep like this.
Sunny: And with that…
Sunny: I think this thing is also going to be clear. So if I'm going to be highlighted, so there could be 96 such decoder. Making sense to all of you, yes or no? So, this is the first and the foremost thing which we need to understand from this particular
Sunny: From this particular research paper, from the transformer research paper, okay? So, over here, guys, I explain you how many encoder and decoder was there.
Sunny: This is the… okay, let me revise all the things. So, this is the original architecture of the transformer.
Sunny: Okay, this is the original architecture of the transformer. So here, basically, inside this particular architecture, they have represented the encoder and decoder, but we can keep the multiple stack of the encoder and decoder, okay? This could be any sort of a number, right? Now, over here, guys, what I did, I created this architecture. There, basically, we were having the encoder and decoder.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the original research paper, so there, basically, we were having 6th encoder and the 6th decoder, right?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, I mentioned why, multiple stack of the encoder and decoder. So, this is the reason, basically, just to capture the relationship, understand the longer contextes of the data, and build the hierarchical meaning. It means build, just to capture the longer, context, longer meaning of the data. So, over here, I've given you one example, and I think with this particular example, you can understand.
Sunny: So let's say my information is being passed from the first layer, from the first encoder. It is understanding the basic relationship between the board.
Sunny: Now, if it is going to be passed from the layer 3, layer 2 to layer 3, so it is able to understand the phrase's meaning. Now, let's say my data is being passed from the 6th layer, right? So it is able to understand the sentence understanding. And if my data is being passed from the layer 12, right, so it is getting a deeper context understanding of the data.
Sunny: So, using the multiple layer, multiple stack of the encoder and decoder, we are going to be capture the deeper context of the data.
Sunny: So is this thing clear to all of you? Yes or no? Tell me. So this is one of the interview questions, that's why I have discussed all this thing. If someone is going to be asking you this thing in an interview, you can explain in a same way. Getting my point? Yes or no? Tell me.
Sunny: Is it getting clear to all of you? If it is getting clear, you can let me know in the chat, so that I can proceed further, okay?
Sunny: Great, guys. Now, over here, what I did, see, we're talking about the transformer architecture.
Sunny: Okay, so over here, what I did… see, I told you, everything, basically, it's going to be… First I'm going to be start from where, first I'm going to be start from the encoder side, okay? First, I'm going to be start from where? First, I'm going to be start from the encoder side.
Sunny: So let's say, guys, this is my encoder. Okay, now we have to understand what is happening inside this encoder.
Sunny: What is there inside this encoder, right? So what is there inside this encoder? First, we need to understand that part. With that, actually, our… most of the concept is going to be clear. So let me write over here.
Sunny: encoder, and will decode each and everything of this encoder, okay?
Sunny: And… coder.
Sunny: This one. So, guys, if we're talking about this encoder, I think in the previous session only, I told you, this encoder is going to be content two thing. Can you tell me, guys, on a high level, this encoder is going to be content two thing.
Sunny: The first thing is going to be what? The first thing is going to be what? The first thing is going to be a self-attention, okay? And the second thing is going to be what? The second thing is going to be nothing. It is going to be a feed-forward neural network, right? So let me draw over here. So, if we're talking about this encoder, there's going to be content two things.
Sunny: The first thing is going to be what, guys? The first thing is going to be a self-attention.
Sunny: And the second thing is going to be what? The second thing is going to be a feed-forward neural network. So we need to be… we need to understand this, encoder in a detail now. We need to understand that what is happening over here. So here, what we have? So, we're talking about, this encoder. So, the first thing is going to be a…
Sunny: Self-attention.
Sunny: Okay? And… The second thing… It's going to be a feed-forward, network.
Sunny: What is this feed-forward network? Can anyone tell me? This feed-forward network is nothing, it is a neural network.
Sunny: It is what? It is a neural network. And if we're talking about the self-attention, what is the self-attention, guys?
Sunny: What is a self-attention? So, self-attention is nothing, it is just a way to finding out the
Sunny: relyment of the word, basically, right? It is just a way of finding out which word is relying on which one, right? So I will explain you this thing, how, basically, this thing is going to be worked, right? It is a way to finding out the semantic meaning between the words, right?
Sunny: So, this, cell potential, actually, it is working on this Q, K, and B.
Sunny: But before that, guys, we have to decode, we have to understand this encoder in a detail, right? Means how it is processing the data, what is happening from it starting to end, then only we will be able to understand each and everything, right? But our main aim to understand this
Sunny: Self-attention only. And along with the self-attention, guys, we are going to be understand one more part. That's going to be what? That's going to be a positional encoding.
Sunny: That's going to be what, guys? Tell me, that's going to be a positional encoding. Getting my point? Tell me… so can I summarize all this thing, and then I'll come to the working of the encoder and decoder. So, we have started from where, guys? We have started from the transformer, this one.
Sunny: Now, if we're talking about a transformer, so here we have two parts of it. First is going to be encoder and decoder. Now, if you will look into this, if you will look into this particular architecture very, carefully, so you will find out one, thing over here. So just look over here, this NX. Can anyone tell me what is the meaning of this NX?
Sunny: What is the meaning of this NX, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: What is the meaning of this annex?
Sunny: So, NX means what? If we're talking about… if we're talking about this, NX, guys, so this is nothing, it is…
Sunny: ISTEC, okay? It is what? It is a ISTEC.
Sunny: of the… encoder.
Sunny: And… decoder.
Sunny: It is going to be a stack of the encoder and decoder.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, is this thing clear? Why to keep? Is this thing clear? Why to keep?
Sunny: Why to keep multiple encoder and decoder?
Sunny: Tell me, multiple encoder and decoder.
Sunny: I think you can explain this thing in an interview also, okay? Someone is going to be asked you. You just need to be explained with this 3 to 4 points, whatever I mention over there. But you will get more about it, okay?
Sunny: So over here, I think this thing is clear. Now, everything is going to be start from where? Everything is going to be start from this encoder and this decoder only, right? So we have to understand the working of it, how this encoder is working, and how this decoder is working, right? So we need to understand this thing.
Sunny: So I started from the encoder. Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the encoder.
Sunny: So, what is the main part of the encoder? Self-attention, and the feed-forward neural network. So, this is two main part of the encoder. This is only going to be processed the information.
Sunny: This is only going to be process, the information, right? But we have to see the end-to-end working of the encoder.
Sunny: So now we are going to be moved to the end-to-end working of the encoder. So, are you ready for that, guys? Tell me, yes or no. Are you ready for that, for this end-to-end working of the encoder? Just let me know in the chat if you are ready for that. So, tell me, guys, how's the session so far?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: No.
Sunny: Guys… Let's, do one thing.
Sunny: Let's take a fresh page, and let me explain you over there itself.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So let's suppose, we have one sentence. I'm going to write one sentence over here.
Sunny: My sentence is going to be what, guys? Let's say I'm writing over here.
Sunny: How?
Sunny: R.
Sunny: U.
Sunny: Now, how this sentence is being processed, using the encoder, okay? Using the encoder, using the encoder, part, or what, using the encoder, part.
Sunny: Of the transformer, okay?
Sunny: Sir, would you say is again, proper sequence is going to be very hazard, bizarre?
Sunny: So, no, we are going in a sequence only, SP, okay? Please, understand. If you are, finding difficulty, so watch out this session again, after the, like, live session, you can go through with the video again, okay? This is one of… one and only suggestion.
Sunny: Now, the first thing, what will happen, guys, tell me.
Sunny: what will happen? I'm just asking to everyone, guys, what will happen at the first place. If we wanted to process this particular sentence using the transformer, so the first thing is going to be what, guys? The first thing is going to be a token. So let's say this is my tokenization layer. Let me draw the tokay najson layer.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: So this is what, guys? This is my Tokayation layer.
Sunny: So, from here, my data is, going to be passed.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, my data is going to be passed from here.
Sunny: Night.
Sunny: Jason.
Sunny: So, after that, guys, what we'll get, we'll get a token out of this particular
Sunny: We'll get a token, will get a token of this particular word, okay?
Sunny: So, here we'll be having one token, then we will be having another token, then we have another token. How many tokens would be there?
Sunny: So we would be having 3 tokens. Okay, so let me write over here.
Sunny: How many tokens we have.
Sunny: We have?
Sunny: three tokens, okay? So this is going to be first token, this is going to be next token, and then this is going to be a next token.
Sunny: So what I can write over here, guys, I can write, this is what, this is my how.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: This is what, this is my R.
Sunny: And this is what? This is my U, right? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? Tell me. This token will be converted into where? This token will be converted into the… which layer?
Sunny: Can't even tell me. This token will be converted into the embedding, right? So the next layer is going to be what, guys? The next layer…
Sunny: The next layer is going to be… embedding layer.
Sunny: So from this embedding layer only, my data is going to be passed.
Sunny: Okay? So I can write over here.
Sunny: The next layer is going to be what?
Sunny: Embedding layer.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: embedding layer.
Sunny: Now, what will be the dimension of this embedding? You can have any sort of a dimension, but if we're talking about the original research paper, so the dimension, basically, of this particular model was the
Sunny: 5, 1, 2, right? And if we're talking about this embedding layer, guys, right? If we're talking about this embedding layer, so it's a word-to-back model.
Sunny: This is what, guys, tell me. This is a word-to-back model. So, let me create a new page, and there, basically, I can explain that part.
Sunny: So I kept that particular explanation, we're talking about the embedding layer, so it's going to be a pre-trained model, or it is going to be a, like, it is directly going to be generate the… it is directly going to be generate what?
Sunny: or it is directly going to be generated the embedding. So I capped that particular explanation over here. Let me keep it.
Sunny: Right? So we're talking about the embedding layer, guys, see?
Sunny: So, first, we would be having text. So, over here, you can see the text.
Sunny: Now, the text, basically, it's going to be passed to the tokenization layer.
Sunny: Then it is going to be passed to the embedding layer. Now, we're talking about the embedding layer, guys, so this is a word-to-back model.
Sunny: This is what? This is a word-to-back model. But guys, this word-to-back model, actually, it is not a pre-trained model, right? So over here, I written an explanation. The embedding layer is essentially similar to the word-to-back model.
Sunny: The only difference is, it is not a pre-trained model.
Sunny: Right? Means this particular model is not being trained on any pre… it is not being trained on any data, right? We just have a model, from that particular model, whatever embedding we are getting, we are just going to be consumed that particular embedding. We are just going to be consumed that particular embedding.
Sunny: So, whenever we are talking about any model, guys, if we're talking about the Word2Bag, let me, ex… let me basically, tell you something. If we're talking about the Word2Bag model, now tell me, guys, this Word2Bag model, it is a neural network-based model.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: It is a neural network-based model, this word-to-back model.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about this neural network-based word-to-back model, so how many phases was there of this particular model?
Sunny: How many phases of this particular model? The first phase was the training of the model.
Sunny: The first phase was the training of the model. And the second phase of the model is called, guys, tell me, what is the second phase of the model?
Sunny: Second phase of the model is called the inferencing.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Inferencing.
Sunny: Now, what is the meaning of the inferencing, guys? If we're talking about the inferencing.
Sunny: So the meaning of the inferencing is going to be prediction.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the Google guys.
Sunny: If we're talking about the Google.
Sunny: So, Google has already trained one model for all of us.
Sunny: Google has already trained one model for all of us.
Sunny: And the model, basically, they have trained on Google News data.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: Yes or no. And we were doing the inferencing using that particular model. What we were doing, guys, tell me. We were doing the inferencing using that particular model. So, whatever model had been trained by the Google, right? So it was a pre-trained model.
Sunny: It was the… pre-trained model.
Sunny: And we were using that particular model, we were using that particular pre-trained model.
Sunny: For what guys tell me, for the prediction.
Sunny: For what, guys, tell me? For the prediction. Now, can you tell me what was the dimension of that particular, what was the dimension of that particular award? We were talking about the prediction. So, we were getting the 300 dimension.
Sunny: Right? Now, on the other hand, guys, on the other hand, we're talking about the other one. So, did we train our own custom model?
Sunny: Did we train our own custom model? Yes or no? Now, what was the dimension of that particular model?
Sunny: So, we capped 150, right? But we can keep anything, whatever we wanted to keep, we can keep any sort of a dimension of that particular model. Now, you can give this particular model to anyone.
Sunny: You can save this particular model, and you can give it to anyone, tell me. So if you're passing this model to anyone, if you're passing this model to anyone, so this will be called the pre-trained model.
Sunny: Let's say if you are giving this particular model to anyone.
Sunny: If you're giving this custom model to anyone, so this will be called the pre-trained model, and that person, basically, that person.
Sunny: That person will be using your model.
Sunny: For what? For the prediction only.
Sunny: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny: So, in a similar way, guys, Google has done, Google has trained the model on a very huge amount of data over the Google News data, okay, they performed the training, and then the pre-trained model we were using for our prediction.
Sunny: We were giving the word to this particular model, and that particular word is being converted into the three-dimension of the embedding.
Sunny: Tell me, guys, is this thing clear to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny: Tell me. Now, over here, just read out this particular sentence.
Sunny: So the embedding layer is essentially similar to the Word2Back model, the only difference, it is not a pre-trained model. So what is the meaning of it, guys? Tell me.
Sunny: What is the meaning of this particular term? It is not a pre-trained model. Means this particular model is not being trained by someone.
Sunny: This particular model, it is not trained by someone.
Sunny: Right? Means it is a model, and it is giving the embedding, right? Means you can think in… you can think in such a way that it is just… it is a model in a training phase only.
Sunny: Means, we are just passing a word to the model, and it is generating an embedding. Means, it is not trained on some data earlier, it is not trained on some data, right? We just have that particular model, we just have that particular model, and it is giving us that… it is giving us an embedding.
Sunny: In training, we used… we do the same thing, no?
Sunny: Are you getting my point, what I'm trying to say over here? Matlab yaha peg model hai. Likin wo model kisina train ya hai. It is not a pre-trained model.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys. Yeah, peg word-to-back just a model here. Here, we have a word-to-back kind of model, but that model is not being by… it is not being trained by someone. It is just a model which is giving us an embedding. Making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny: Is it getting clear to all of you now? Yes? So, here I kept the same explanation. You can, like, again, go through with it, and you can understand. Now, over here, guys.
Sunny: Not clear about a dimension in the… Dimension is nothing. Dimension I discussed in a very detail in the previous class, Sandeep. Please check out over there, okay? I'm not going to repeat the same part over here, right? So, we just had a model, so let's say this is my model, guys.
Sunny: This is my model. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Let's say this is the input layer. The input is coming.
Sunny: It is going through the embedding, the hidden embedding one.
Sunny: So, it is going through the, hidden layer, basically. This is my hidden layer.
Sunny: Okay? And it is predicting the output, so this is predicting the output, something like this.
Sunny: So this one, basically, here, they cap this kind of model, the neural network.
Sunny: Which is… which was giving us the embedding.
Sunny: Which was giving us the embedding, this one. But guys, this model, actually, it's not a pre-trained model.
Sunny: It's not a pre-trained model, no.
Sunny: It is not a pre-trained model, no, right? It is just a model, means someone capped this model, I can write the model name, what model name I can give. Okay, let's say this is the
Sunny: Neural network alpha model. Okay, just don't write like this, otherwise you will again confused. This is the model, okay? Neural network model. So they cap this particular model as it is over here, which is giving us the embedding.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? So is this embedding, embedding layer is clear to all of you?
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Escape grandmosivo, anything, Manish, right?
Sunny: For the bigger data set, we use the skipgram, and for the smaller dataset, we can use the C1. Now, over here, guys, see, if we're talking about, the embedding layer, right? So, after the embedding layer, what we will be getting, can anyone tell me? After the embedding layer, we will be getting the embedding, okay? Embedding of…
Sunny: three words. So, embedding of what, embedding of the three words. So how many words we have? We have three words. So, let me create the embedding of that. So, this is the embedding of the first word, this is the embedding of the second word, and this is the embedding of the third word. Okay? Now, over here, I can…
Sunny: draw that. So, this is fine.
Sunny: This one is going to be what? This is going to be embedding. Okay? Now, can I write a name of this embedding? So, let's say my embedding name is going to be E1.
Sunny: Right? So, over here, I'm saying this is my E1, this is my E2, this is going to be what? This is going to be my E3. Till here, everything is clear, tell me whenever any sentence will be passed, so how it is being processed.
Sunny: Guys, please, don't ask this type of question, don't ask this type of stupid question, it is always 512 dimension. I've shown you the custom model, right?
Sunny: The dimension could be anything. Inside the research paper, inside the research paper, they have mentioned 512 dimension in their practical. But if you are creating, if I am creating, if
Sunny: Elon Musk is creating, or if Mark Jugalwar is creating, so they have a freedom to keep any sort of a dimension of their model over here.
Sunny: Understand, guys, okay? Please, be mature, if you are at this stage now.
Sunny: Getting my point?
Sunny: Okay, so we are getting an embedding over here. Now, after that, guys, what is going to be our next thing? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny: what's going to be the next thing? The next thing is going to be
Sunny: The next thing is going to be… tell me?
Sunny: positional encoding. You are right, guys. So the next thing is going to be what? The next thing is going to be…
Sunny: positional encoding. So over here, what I'll do, guys, I'll add the positional encoding vector, right? So this is what, this is my positional encoded vector. I'll explain what is a positional encoding, and how it is being performed.
Sunny: What is this, E1, E2, and E3? It's an embedding, na, Lokesh. Embedding a value, embedding many is kubaldiya E1, escuboldiya E2 is Kubaldiya E3. Getting my point.
Sunny: Right? So this is going to be what, guys? This is going to be a positional encoding. P1,
Sunny: P2, and… P3.
Sunny: Getting my point?
Sunny: So, after that, guys, what will happen? See? Now, this particular data, whatever data we'll be getting from here.
Sunny: Whatever data we'll be getting from here, this one.
Sunny: This particular data will be passed here.
Sunny: This particular data will be passed where, guys? Tell me? This particular data. Okay, let me show you this particular data as a vector. So this is going to be what? This is going to be a vector, the final vector, okay? So here is my vector. This is one vector, this is the second vector, and this is going to be what?
Sunny: This is going to be a third vector, right? This is going to be what? This is going to be a third vector. Now, what I'm doing, guys, I'm just going to be, like, show you as a vector. This is a vector, this is a vector. So, I'm keeping a name of this particular vector, let's say I'm saying X1,
Sunny: X2, and X3. I'm just giving a name to this one. Now, tell me, guys, this vector is a how, yes or no? It's a how, right? This is my how word. How.
Sunny: Right? Now, here is what? Here is my R.
Sunny: Right? And this is what? This is my U.
Sunny: Getting my point, guys? So, how are you? This is my 3-vector now. So, this layer is which one, guys? If we're talking about this particular layer, let me write over here, this is going to be a positional encoding.
Sunny: traditional.
Sunny: and coding.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And this is what, guys?
Sunny: This is what? This is my embedded vector, which I'm getting after, which I'm getting, from where, guys? Which I'm getting from the embedded layer, okay? This is going to be what? This is going to be my…
Sunny: Embedded.
Sunny: vector.
Sunny: Understood? I hope, till here everything is fine, everything is clear. Now, this X1, X2, and X3, this particular vector now actually is going to be passed here. This particular vector is actually going to be passed inside the
Sunny: Tell me, guys, where this particular thing is going to be passed. This particular thing is going to be passed to the multi-head attention, okay? So, over here, what I can do, I can draw one more box, and this particular box is going to be what?
Sunny: This particular box is going to be multi-head attention. So let me write over here.
Sunny: This is going to be.
Sunny: multi-head.
Sunny: Self-attention.
Sunny: Lia.
Sunny: multi-head.
Sunny: Self-attention.
Sunny: layer, okay? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? See, I will pass my vector from this multi-aired cell potential layer, and we need to understand that, how this thing is working. So, I will explain you how this multi-aired cell potential is working, okay?
Sunny: I will discuss this multi-cell retention in a detail, if you wanted to know about the formula of this multi-cell potential layer. So, this is the formula of the multi-head self-attention. Here you can see this one.
Sunny: So how this formula is being derived, what is the purpose behind this particular formula? Okay, this is the, like, formula of the attention.
Sunny: And, if we are going to be applying this thing multiple times, so this… that is called the multi-edit self-attention. So, here, we have to be, like, we have to understand the Q, K, and V concept.
Sunny: We are going to be understand that. Yes, Samita, we'll understand the positional encoding. Don't worry. Don't worry, don't worry, okay? Be happy. We'll understand about the positional encoding. I'll explain you in detail. Getting my point? As of now, I'm just explaining the flow, flow of the data, okay?
Sunny: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, this particular, from the multi-ended cell potential layer, again, will get a vector. So, let me draw the vector.
Sunny: Now, this particular vector, actually, it's going to be a conceptual vector.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So this particular vector is going to be what? This particular vector is going to be a
Sunny: Contextual vector, this one, Z1. I can write some name of it, I'll write that, don't worry.
Sunny: So this particular vector I'll be getting.
Sunny: Okay? So this is going to be what, guys? This is going to be what? This is going to be my contextual vector.
Sunny: Okay, so this is going to be what? This is going to be, let's say, Z1. I'm just writing a name of it. This is my Z1, this is my Z2, and this is my Z3. Getting my point? Now, over here, we have one more thing.
Sunny: So, over here, you will get one more concept that is called the residual connection. So, I will explain to you what is this? A residual connection also, right? So, this vector, this particular vector, it will come as it is from here.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: It will come as it is from here, this one, this particular vector, and it will be added.
Sunny: Right? It will be added to this Jet 1, Jet 2, and Jet 3.
Sunny: We are going to add this particular value, as it is, to this J1, J2, and J3. We'll understand that, why this thing is happening, I'll explain that part, okay? So over here, this vector will come, and this vector
Sunny: Let me put the arrow over here.
Sunny: And this particular vector will be added over here.
Sunny: this particular vector will be added over here. So let me add this particular vector. So here we have a plus.
Sunny: Okay, so here we'll perform the addition operation. Addition operation. So this is what, this is my vector, the same vector, X1, X2, and X3. So let me draw this particular thing over here.
Sunny: As of now, I'm just explaining to you guys how this data is being processed, okay? We'll deep dive the concept, multi-edit attention, and the positional encoding, both.
Sunny: So this is the same vector, X1,
Sunny: X2 and X3. So let me write a name over here.
Sunny: So this is going to be what? This is going to be X1.
Sunny: X2, and X3.
Sunny: Now, after the addition, guys, okay, after the addition, whatever final vector will get, whatever final vector will get. So, let me, again, show you. See, this is the, data is being passed. Okay, so, here, what will happen?
Sunny: See, here is my vector. After the addition, whatever vector will get.
Sunny: So that vector, basically, again, will be passed from one more layer. So let me rename this particular vector.
Sunny: What I can do, guys, I can, draw it one more time, just a second. So this is going to be my new vector, this one. So this, I can write a different name for it, just a second. This particular vector.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: This is… Now, what name I can write? I can give Jet1", jet2DAS, okay? So this is what? This is my vector, which I will get after the addition. So this is going to be what? Let's say this is going to be what? This is going to be my Z1 dash.
Sunny: JET2 dash, okay, and JET3- Now, this vector, again, will be passed from one more layer. Can anyone tell me what is going to be that particular layer? We're talking about that layer, so that layer is called the layer normalization layer.
Sunny: Okay, layer normalization. So here we are going to be normalize the data, actually. So the next layer is going to be what? The next layer is going to be a layer normalization.
Sunny: layer normalization. So let me write over here.
Sunny: This is going to be what?
Sunny: This is going to be near.
Sunny: normalization. Getting my point? Now, after that, whatever vector we'll get.
Sunny: Okay. See, guys, like this, the encoder is working, the complete encoder. You are underestimating the encoder. Now, did you understand how this chat GPT… this GPT model is able to sustain the longer context?
Sunny: like this, only it is able to sustain the longer context. It's a very powerful model. Okay, it is passing the data from the multiple places, from the multiple layers, actually. So, whatever vector we'll get over here, let me draw one more box, and
Sunny: This vector will be called what?
Sunny: This vector will be called the norm vector, okay? So, normalization means what? We'll discuss that. What is the meaning of the normalization? First of all, let me show you the flow, how the data is being flowed, okay? So, this is going to be what? This is going to be my…
Sunny: norm vector, so I can write over here.
Sunny: Z1, Norm.
Sunny: Z2 dash norm, okay?
Sunny: This is going to be what, guys? This is going to be my norm vector.
Sunny: Then, Z3 does NOM.
Sunny: Now, this particular data, guys, it will be a stacked as a metric, see? This particular data will be a stacked as a metrics, okay? Because, ultimately, it's a metrics. Ultimately, guys, what it is, it is a matrix, right?
Sunny: means whatever data we were getting, it was passing parallelly, okay? So, this data, how this data will look like, this data will look like this. Let me show you. Combinedly, how this data will look like. So, over here, I can show you the data. See, this is the data, guys, this one.
Sunny: This is what? This is the data, okay? So this is my data, where we have a 3-vector.
Sunny: Getting my point? Now, this particular data, now this particular data further will pass to the neural network.
Sunny: Which is called?
Sunny: F, F, and then feet forward neural network. Can you getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me, till here everything is getting clear to all of you, how this encoder is processing the data. So, in this particular way, encoder is processing the data till the neural network. I hope it is visible to all of you, this one.
Sunny: I haven't explained anything over here, normalization and all. We'll discuss that, okay? We'll discuss that particular part. So, like this, guys, the data is being passed from where? From the neural network, okay? Now, this, this, this data, okay? Let me keep it over here.
Sunny: So, after that, guys, what will happen? This data will be passed to the neural network, right? So, let me… let me complete this particular architecture. So, this… I'm going to be continue over here, guys, okay? Just focus. I'm going to be continue over here.
Sunny: Just a second, guys. I'm just going to be continue on the other side, because I don't have a space over there. I don't have a space, so I'm going to be continue over here. So this is my data, guys. I got my final data. So let me draw my final data over here. This is my final data, this one. So this particular data.
Sunny: This particular data, guys, Okay, where it is being passed.
Sunny: This particular data is being passed, To the neural network, okay?
Sunny: So, let me pass this data to the neural network. You know about the neural network? I think you know, right? So, let's suppose this is my neural network. Let me draw it.
Sunny: So, here, guys… This is the neural network. Okay, this one.
Sunny: This is going to be what? This is going to be a neurons. Let me draw by myself, I think, I can draw it.
Sunny: So, this particular data, Is being passed to the… neural network.
Sunny: Okay? Like this. This one.
Sunny: And this is going to be what, guys? This is going to be a fully connected neural network. I'll tell you the dimension and all, everything. So this is going to be what? This is going to be a fully connected neural network, okay? Now, whatever
Sunny: See, after processing, right, whatever data is being processed from the neural network, right, whatever output will get from here. So let's suppose this is my output. What I'll be getting, guys, I'll be getting my output from here.
Sunny: This one.
Sunny: Okay, so I'll be getting my output over here. Now, the dimension is going to be same.
Sunny: the dimension is going to be same of this particular network, okay? I'll tell you what is the dimension and all, everything I'll come. Now, this is the data, basically, okay? So, I can show you this particular data like this.
Sunny: Just to explain you one more thing. So this is what… what I'm getting, guys, over here. I'm getting this Y1, Y2, and Y3.
Sunny: This is my Y1, okay, this is my Y2, and this is what? This is my Y3.
Sunny: Let me write over here, okay? This is going to be what? This is going to be Y1, this is going to be what? Y2, and this is going to be what? Y3, right? Now, what will happen after this one? So, this is what? This is my vector, guys. See, I'm getting this particular vector. Let me draw it over here.
Sunny: So I'm getting what? I'm getting this particular vector, Y1, Y2,
Sunny: And Y3, okay? So over here, what will happen, guys? See, this is my Y1.
Sunny: Y2 and Y3. I'm just giving the name of it. I'm just giving a name to this one, Y1, Y2, and Y3, right? Then after that, guys, what will happen? Then again, what will happen, guys, over here, again, the residual connection will be performed.
Sunny: Again, the residual connection will be performed. From where? From here to there, okay? Then, this information, this particular information, this RAD information, this particular information, again, will be passed to this Y1, Y2, and Y3. So, let me mention over here.
Sunny: The… let me mention over here what?
Sunny: The residual connection.
Sunny: So, this particular information, this particular information, again, will be passed. So, I'm just going to be take a same color, so that you can understand.
Sunny: This particular information, again, will be passed over here, this information, okay? Now, why residual connection and all? Everything I kept with me, guys, don't worry, I'll explain you that part.
Sunny: So this is what? This is the same information which will be passed over here. I'm just going to be… show you with an arrow now.
Sunny: So this is the information, okay? So what will happen, guys? See, the addition operation will happen over here.
Sunny: I will explain you why this information is being passed, what is the meaning of the residual connection, each and everything will understand. As of now, we are just understanding the working of the encoder, how this encoder is processing the data. It is a working of the single encoder, okay?
Sunny: So, this is the same vector.
Sunny: This is the same vector.
Sunny: This one?
Sunny: And this one. Now, guys, after that, whatever, right, after that, whatever information we'll get, right, so let me write over here. So, this is going to be an information. I can take the information from here.
Sunny: Guys, just give me a moment, I'm going to be completed. So this particular information, basically, what I can say, this particular information is the
Sunny: Y1-Y1, Y2, and Y3, okay? Y1-Y2-, and Y3- so let me give the different name to this one.
Sunny: So this is going to be an information, okay? Y1-Y2- and Y3- Then, again, it will be passed to one more layer.
Sunny: This is called the layer normalization. This everything, guys, everything they have mentioned inside the transformer encoder architecture. Even I will compare, right? Now, again, this particular information will be passed to the layer normalization.
Sunny: And after that, whatever in… after that, guys, whatever, right? After that, whatever vector we'll be getting, right? So let me mention the vector over here.
Sunny: And this is going to be a vector. See, this is my layer normalization layer. And after that, whatever, whatever vector we'll be getting, so this is going to be a norm vector, right? This norm vector, basically.
Sunny: Finally, we'll be passing to the decoder, right? Or if we have a multiple stack of the encoder, then this particular information is being passed to the next encoder layer. So let me mention over here, and this is going to be an end of the decoder process. So let me…
Sunny: mention over here. This is the same guy, this is the same information, okay, which we are passing to the neural network. Now, I can give the name to this one. So, this is going to be, let's say, Y1-Y2-,
Sunny: Y1 dash, Y2 dash, and Y3- I can write like this, just give me a moment. And this transformer architecture, guys, it's a tricky architecture. It's not an easy architecture, right? That's why the entire AI is running on top of this one.
Sunny: So Y2 dash, and Y3 dash. Now, this is going to be what, guys? This is going to be my…
Sunny: layer normalization.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: layer normalization. And after that, whatever vector we'll be getting, the final vector, basically, which I can say the final vector, so this is going to be what?
Sunny: This is going to be my final vector. This one, this one, and this one. So let me draw over here this one, this one, and this one. So this is called Y1 norm, okay? Y1 dash.
Sunny: Norm.
Sunny: This is called Y2-norm.
Sunny: Norm means what? Normalized vector. Normalized vector means what? We are just going to be suppress the value of it, okay? And then, it's going to be…
Sunny: Why 3 dash? No.
Sunny: So this particular information, now this particular information, okay, if we have a single encoder.
Sunny: If we have a single encoder.
Sunny: Then this particular information is being passed to the decoder.
Sunny: If we have a multiple encoder.
Sunny: If we have a multiple encoder, Okay.
Sunny: So this particular information, this Y1 norm, Y2 norm, and Y3 norm, it is being passed to the
Sunny: Next, encoder block.
Sunny: Making sense to all of you guys, tell me.
Sunny: So, did you understand how this encoder is processing the entire data?
Sunny: This is a way, like this, the encoder is processing the entire data. Maybe you are not getting it as of now, but once you will go through with it, you will understand. And, this is, like, a really complex one. It is not an easy one, guys, right?
Sunny: And that's why, guys, no one touch this transformer architecture. Even you will get a very few explanation of the transformer, even over the internet, okay?
Sunny: So tell me, in single go, are you able to understand, how the data is being processed through this encoder?
Sunny: We'll decode each and every concept of it, what is a positional encoding, what is a multi-edit attention, okay, what is a layer normalization. We'll understand this part. We'll understand, the different, different part of it, okay?
Sunny: If you are, keep… if you're getting hard as of now, but, guys, if you will revise it, or once I'll give you the explanation of it again, means once I will explain you this entire thing again, you will understand, okay? Maybe your understanding will be a bit more clear over here.
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: So, we'll take a revision of it. We'll take a revision of it. So, let me explain you entire thing, let me give you the quick recap of each and everything now.
Sunny: So, just a second, guys, I'm giving you the recap of each and everything, right?
Sunny: So, guys, did you, okay,
Sunny: Have you seen the, architecture of the… sorry, have you seen that, encoder-decoder architecture from the original transformer research paper? Tell me this was the…
Sunny: Original research paper, okay?
Sunny: This was the architecture from the original research paper.
Sunny: So, inside this particular architecture, how many blocks we have? Tell me, guys, how many block we have. We have an encoder block, and we have a…
Sunny: decoder block over here. This one is going to be a decoder block, right?
Sunny: So, we're talking about the encoder, so the first thing, basically, which I explained to you about the encoder.
Sunny: Can you tell me, guys, can we take a multiple stack of the encoder?
Sunny: Can we take a multiple stack of the encoder?
Sunny: Multiple stack of the encoder.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So where that thing is… where that thing have been highlighted, so that this thing have been highlighted over here. If you will check over here, this NX.
Sunny: this annex.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the encoder.
Sunny: We were talking about the encoder, so did you understand?
Sunny: How this encoder is processing the data? Tell me, guys, do you understand how this encoder is processing the data?
Sunny: Now, where you will understand that, where you understood that. So, here only you will understand that. See, this one? Here is the architecture, this one.
Sunny: the process of the encoder, how the encoder is processing the data. Now, here we have so many questions in our mind. We're talking about the encoder, so many questions are there.
Sunny: The first question, basically, what is attention layer and how it is working?
Sunny: Yes or no? Tell me, guys.
Sunny: What is R?
Sunny: positional encoding, And how it is working. This is the first caution.
Sunny: Yes, question number one.
Sunny: Question number two is, what is an attention layer?
Sunny: What is an attention layer? Or what is a self-attention?
Sunny: This is… Quotion number 2.
Sunny: Alright?
Sunny: The third question, basically, what is a layer normalization?
Sunny: What is a layer normalization? This is a question number 3.
Sunny: The fourth question, basically, What is our residual connection?
Sunny: What is our residual connection?
Sunny: This is what? This is question number 4.
Sunny: Okay, and why they used it.
Sunny: The next question, basically, Why they used Why they used…
Sunny: Why they use neural network.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So this is question number 6, or this is question number 5. Do we have all this question from the encoder guides? Tell me yes or no?
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: So now, we'll clarify all this question, right? So going forward, we'll clarify all this question. What is a positional encoding? How does it working? What is our tension? How does it working? Layer normalization, why the residual connection was there, and why they have used the neural network inside this particular architecture.
Sunny: So, guys, are you able to connect the dot now of this transformer architecture? How's the explanation so far? This architecture, basically, it will keep you on track, this one.
Sunny: This architecture, this particular flow, it will keep you on track.
Sunny: I'll give you the quick revision of it, okay? This particular slide, basically, it will keep you on track, this one.
Sunny: Yes, vector normalization, neural normalization is same. Correct rak history. It is right.
Sunny: Okay, so fine guys, just let's take a break, let's take a deep breath now, and then, again, I'll give you the quick revision of it.
Sunny: And finally, guys, we'll deep dive into each and every question, okay?
Sunny: We'll understand each and everything.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Perfect? Yeah. Okay.
Sunny: Thank you, I'll start the session after 15 minutes. Okay, let's start after 18 minutes.
Sunny: Thank you, everyone.
Sunny: Yes, guys, transformer is difficult, actually. It is a difficult architecture, okay? You will have to be adept at that, but yeah, I'm breaking, as much as possible, I'm breaking into the concepts. I'm breaking all this concept. So maybe if you are not able to understand in this class, just revise this session, or just go through with the notes, you will be able to understand, okay?
Sunny: Fine. Thank you, guys.
Sunny: Okay, guys, can we start now?
Sunny: Great.
Sunny: Please cover the token agent. Yes, that part will come now, later on also, that part will come, Riaj, okay? Don't worry, while… when I will explain the hugging face and all now, that part will come, okay?
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: I hope everyone is there. Please let me know in the chat, guys, if you are there, so that we can start with the class.
Sunny: Just, give me a quick thumbs up.
Sunny: Okay, let's begin. So, guys, before starting with the concept, let me share the…
Sunny: Just a second, okay?
Sunny: Wait.
Sunny: So, guys, as I share the detail of the Smash API,
Sunny: I think I shared the link as well, correct?
Sunny: See, if you will go and check with this, stdtps slash meshappi.ai now.
Sunny: this particular link, so we'll get all the models and all. Don't worry, in the next module, we are going to be understand, like, how to read a model from the different, different API, okay? So once you will get that understanding now, how to read a model from the different APIs, like ROG API,
Sunny: or from the OpenAI API, Google Gemini API, Open Router, right? So you can load the model from anywhere.
Sunny: Right? From any sort of API. So, Mesh API is one of, them. So, he's our collaborator, actually. So, he is, giving us some, free credits as well.
Sunny: So, how to avail that pre-credit? Here we have documented all those things. See, just check out over here. I'll share this, document with all of you. So, what you have to do, guys, see, if you will go and check with this, mesh API, meshappi.ai.
Sunny: And just check out with their, document.
Sunny: Now, just go and check out with the models, right? Available models. Now, over here, you will get some model freely, right? So, couple of models are freely available, and some model are the paid one.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: See, this model are the paid one. So the good model, basically, and the huge model, right, which is having a good reasoning capability, those are the paid one.
Sunny: But if you wanted to access this model freely, so we are giving you some free credits as well. So how to avail those free credits? So, here is the complete information of it, inside this particular document.
Sunny: So you can check it out, and you can avail, those free credits, okay? You just need to be… use this CRISH0125…
Sunny: 01250 coupon code. Once you will use that, you will not be charged anything, okay? While you are purchasing the API credit, you will not be charged anything if you are going to be used this particular credit. And you can utilize any sort of a model from here, from this particular API.
Sunny: Getting my point? So I'm sharing all this detail, I'm sharing this document inside the chat. Please, go and check over there. Okay, I'm putting, this particular link inside the chat itself, and even I will provide you inside my notes as well.
Sunny: So, give me a moment, guys, I'm keeping it over here.
Sunny: So, once I'll, sorry, once you got it, please let me know. You can mention
Sunny: Inside the chat itself, okay?
Sunny: Just check out with this link.
Sunny: Got it, guys. Give me a quick thumbs up if you got it then.
Sunny: I shared in the committee chat.
Sunny: Okay, I'm sharing inside this chat as well. Wait.
Sunny: Okay, can we start now? If you got it, then, can we start again?
Sunny: Okay, later on you can, later in… later on you can understand all this document and all everything.
Sunny: And you can read out this entire document, and how to configure this, Mesh API. You can understand that as well. Got it?
Sunny: Okay, perfect. So, let's begin with our architecture that's going to be a transformer.
Sunny: So I hope, guys, whatever concept I have explained you with respect to the transformer, all of those concepts are clear.
Sunny: So, now let me give you the quick, let me explain the quick definition, and then we'll deep dive into one… each one of them.
Sunny: So we're talking about, the encoder, okay? So, let me write over here.
Sunny: And… quota.
Sunny: So first, guys, what we'll do, we'll take a recap, actually.
Sunny: how the data is being processed inside the encoder, okay?
Sunny: Let me give you the quick recap of it.
Sunny: Now, we're talking about the concept, so there are several concepts which we need to understand.
Sunny: The first concept is going to be a positional encoding.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: positional encoding.
Sunny: The second concept is going to be Self-attention.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Self-attention.
Sunny: The third concept is going to be a layer normalization, or normalization.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: The next concept, the next question is going to be, why?
Sunny: Residol Connection.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And this next concept is going to be Y.
Sunny: neural network.
Sunny: Right, I think these are many questions are there. Question 1, 2, 3…
Sunny: 4, 5, right? So this 5 question was there.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, if we're talking about this particular concept, this particular concept.
Sunny: So this concept, actually, we can understand mathematically.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, mathematically, I can explain you how this thing works. So, maybe, today, I'll give you the high-level overview.
Sunny: Hi.
Sunny: Level overview.
Sunny: Okay, what is the meaning of it? What's the meaning of the positional encoding, and why it is being used?
Sunny: What's the meaning of the layer normalization and why it is being used? And I think self-attention introduction, I already given you in my previous class, but again, I'll give you the high-level overview. And then, we'll deep dive into the mathematics. Now, this two things, actually, it's pretty easy.
Sunny: So, this I will explain you today, okay? Here, mathematics is not required, we just need to be answered this thing, two things, two questions, why this thing is being used. So, we need to understand this two things conceptually.
Sunny: Understood?
Sunny: Yes or no?
Sunny: No, mathematical explanation, is not being asked in an interview, right? They will not ask you in an interview. You just need to be understand for your deeper understanding, okay? You just need… we just need to be… go through with it for the deeper understanding. That's it.
Sunny: So, this thing, conceptually, there's two points we need to be understood conceptually, and this three points, basically, will take a high-level overview in today's session, and then maybe tomorrow we can understand that mathematically, okay? So, one or two more class for the transformer, guys.
Sunny: And I hope you are enjoying this transfer forward with me. So, I took the aim just to complete it within 4-5 classes, and I think that would be sufficient, okay? Then we'll move to the other concept, like fine-tuning.
Sunny: How to load a model from the APIs, okay, RAG and the agent concept.
Sunny: So, guys, if we're talking about the encoder, let's take a recap of it. And, guys, one more thing. After encoder, we'll understand about the decoder also.
Sunny: So, inside the decoder, we're talking about the decoder, so it is working in a same way, like encoder is working.
Sunny: But there is some other, concept which we need to understand. We're talking about the decoder, so inside the decoder, they have a… they discuss, they talked about one, particular concept. The concept, basically, it is called the cross-attention.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: cross-attention. And sometimes people are asking this question in an interview, what is a cross-attention, how it is working.
Sunny: Right? So we'll understand the cross-attention, how it is working inside the decoder side.
Sunny: Okay? So we'll, look into that as well.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, we're talking about the encoder, so let's take a recap of it, let's go through with this particular architecture one more time, so that we'll get a better clarity, right?
Sunny: So I hope my architecture is visible. So are you ready again, to understand about it? And then I'll give you the high-level overview of all those things.
Sunny: So, guys, if we're talking about Just a second.
Sunny: Just… just give me a moment, guys, okay?
Sunny: Where we are going to be discuss about the decoder. Maybe in the next to next class, Dharoo, we'll discuss about the decoder.
Sunny: Got it.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, if we're talking about, the encoder, right, how it is working, let's take a quick recap.
Sunny: So, this is what, guys, this is my data.
Sunny: Okay? This is my data.
Sunny: And this is what? This is my sentence. Anything you can say, right? This is my phrase, this is my data, this is my sentence. So first, what we will do, we'll divide the data into the tokens. Now, tokens is nothing, it is awards, actually.
Sunny: So this is what? This is my words.
Sunny: Right? Every company, every different, different company, basically, they have trained their own tokenizer.
Sunny: Right? So they have trained their own tokenizer, so we can use the tokenizer from the different, different places.
Sunny: Right? From the different, different models, okay? So, I will show you that, once I'll come to the hugging phase. Hugging Face is having a different, different tokenizer. So, with respect to every model, guys, you will get a tokenizer, okay? So, we'll understand the tokenization concept when I will teach you the hugging phase. Getting my point?
Sunny: Okay? So, token is actually not a word, it is a less than a word. Yeah, it is a verbal explanation of the token, Ronak, right? I know that, it is a less than word, okay?
Sunny: Means, they have trained their own algorithm to convert the data into the tokens. So it could be 1, 3x4 of the word, it could be 75% of the word, right? Great. Now, over here, guys, this is what… this is my word-to-back model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: This is my word-to-back model. So, is it a pre-trained model, this one?
Sunny: Is it a pre-trained model?
Sunny: No, it is not a pre-trained model, okay? It's just a lookup, right? So, it is just a lookup, okay? Just a model, basically, which is going to be convert, my data into the embedding. Now, after… once my token will be passed from here, from this particular model, will I be getting this E1, E2, and E3? Tell me, guys.
Sunny: Will I be getting this E2, E1, E2, and E3?
Sunny: So I'll be getting this E1, E2, and E3. So this is what, this is my embedded vector.
Sunny: Now, can you tell me what is the size of this embedded vector?
Sunny: If we're talking about the original research paper, if we're talking about the original research paper, so the size of this embedded vector is going to be 512.
Sunny: Okay? Now, over here, guys, we have a positional encoding layer.
Sunny: positional encoding layer. So, first, understand the meaning of this positional encoding, and tomorrow, guys, I will explain you the, mathematically, okay? So, I have one mathematical derivation also of this positional encoding.
Sunny: So, if you will go into… if you will go and check, if you will go and check the, research paper of the transformer, so there they have explained the concept of the positional encoding, okay?
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, you can see, let me scroll down. See, this is the attention.
Sunny: And using this particular formula, basically, they are going to be generate the positional encoding.
Sunny: Can you see this formula? Yes or no? Is it visible to all of you, this one?
Sunny: So, using this particular formula only, they are going to be generating the positional encoding. So they just created, they just created basically one paragraph to explain about the positional encoding.
Sunny: But guys, just by reading this particular paragraph, you will face a difficulty, okay, to understand about the positional encoding. So I will give you one very basic example, okay? With that, you can understand. But I can explain you on a high level what is the meaning of it, okay? So let's understand on a high level what is a positional encoding.
Sunny: Now, before that, let me explain you one more concept, okay, about the vector. It is a very simple concept, let me write over here.
Sunny: So, you need to be understand the difference between the concatenation and the addition, right?
Sunny: Concatination.
Sunny: And addition.
Sunny: So let's suppose, guys, we have two vectors.
Sunny: This is my first vector.
Sunny: And this is my second vector.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys, see.
Sunny: We are saying 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. If I'm saying I'm going to be performing the concatenation, so what I'm doing, guys, tell me.
Sunny: So, we are going to be conca-Cate the vector. Okay, what is the meaning of the concatenation C?
Sunny: the final vector will become like this. It will… it will append the vector, okay? So this vector will be appended over here. So 1…
Sunny: 2… Three.
Sunny: For you?
Sunny: 6, 7. So this is what? This is the concave vector.
Sunny: This is what guys tell me. This is called the concatenation operation.
Sunny: concatenation operation, okay? Sorry for the, like, wrong spelling, but I think you are able to understand what I'm trying to say.
Sunny: Okay, so it is appending the vector.
Sunny: Appending the vector.
Sunny: Now, on the other hand, we are talking about the addition, guys. So, what is the meaning of addition? Addition means, basically, we are going to be at two vectors, okay? One vector and the two vector. So, what will be the final vector over here? We're talking about the addition.
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: So, on an element level, or on a positional level, guys, we are going to be at the vector. So, 5 plus 1 is going to be 6, 6 plus 2 is going to be 8, and 7 and 3 is going to be 10. So, this is going to be what? This is going to be adaptive vector.
Sunny: Edit a vector, okay? Edit tip vector.
Sunny: Tell me, is it clear to all of you, yes or no? What is the meaning of the concatenation, and what is the meaning of the addition? So if I'm saying addition, guys, addition means we are going to be add the vector.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: We are going to be at 2Vector.
Sunny: Now, if we're talking about the concatenation? Concatination means what? Concatination means? We are… Appending to vector, okay?
Sunny: We are appending the vector.
Sunny: Now, Bhagwanda is saying, no. What else I can explain over here, Bhagwandaji, huh?
Sunny: Reconcatination means appending. Addition means addition.
Sunny: 2 plus 2 means, what, 4?
Sunny: And 2 plus 2, right? If I'm going to be concatenate, so it's going to be 22.
Sunny: Simple.
Sunny: This is the addition, and this is the concatenation, right?
Sunny: Is it clear now? Tell me. Yes or no, guys?
Sunny: I think you are able to understand, okay? Simple and straightforward, that's it.
Sunny: Now, over here, guys.
Sunny: Okay, so I was… I was trying to explain you the positional encoding on a high level, on a, basically, some, high level, basically. Okay, so let me do it over here. I can do it over here.
Sunny: So, I'm writing one sentence. The sentence is going to be maybe very easy, very simple, a very straightforward sentence, okay? So, here I am going to write.
Sunny: Sunny, Okay.
Sunny: Just, just focus over the sentence, guys. Sunny.
Sunny: Sunny.
Sunny: is taking.
Sunny: Sunny is staking.
Sunny: Gen AI class.
Sunny: GenAI class.
Sunny: and teaching, Sunny's taking Danai class and teaching.
Sunny: transformer. So this is what, this is my sentence, guys.
Sunny: Right? Now, over here, inside this particular sentence, Tell me, guys.
Sunny: This word sequence is… this word sequence is important or not.
Sunny: This word sequence… Word sequence is important or not.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: If I'm going to be right the same sentence like this, if I'm going to be right the same sentence like this.
Sunny: Sunny.
Sunny: is… Gen AI taking.
Sunny: teaching, And… transformer.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, here the meaning is going to be change.
Sunny: Here, the meaning.
Sunny: is… going to be changed.
Sunny: And this is not a correct sentence.
Sunny: This is not a meaningful sentence.
Sunny: So, guys, did you understand what I'm trying to say over here? Did you understand what I'm trying to say over here? Tell me. So, I'm trying to say over here, here you can see this particular sentence. If I'm passing the data to the model, if I'm passing a data to the model, then position matter.
Sunny: If I am passing data, Okay, if I am passing data.
Sunny: If I'm passing data to the model, Then…
Sunny: position matter.
Sunny: Is this line true or not?
Sunny: Is this line true or not? Right? Now, to rescue this thing, to rescue this thing, we are going to be using the positional encoding. Now, over here, guys, tell me, we're talking about the model, so what is our model? Which model we are using over here? Can anyone tell me which model we are talking about? We are talking about the…
Sunny: Transformer.
Sunny: And guys, if we're talking about the transformer, so how to pass the data to the transformer?
Sunny: How we pass data to the transformer.
Sunny: Tell me, guys.
Sunny: Tell me, tell me, tell me, how we pass data to…
Sunny: transformer. So the question is very, very simple.
Sunny: sorry, the question is very, very straightforward, how we pass the data to the transformer. We pay… we pass the data to the transformer.
Sunny: In a parallel manner.
Sunny: First day, I explained you that.
Sunny: If we're talking about the LSTM model, how we were passing data to the LSTM model, tell me, guys.
Sunny: Sequential order.
Sunny: So, in the sequential order, automatically, we are going to be preserved the end… automatically, we are going to be preserved the position.
Sunny: Automatically, we are going to be preserve the position. Tell me, guys, if we're talking about the sequentially, automatically, we preserve…
Sunny: We preserve the position.
Sunny: automatically, we preserve the position inside the sequential order, which we are passing to the LSTM. But what was the drawback, guys? The drawback, basically… the drawback, basically… the drawback, basically, what was the drawback?
Sunny: The architecture was the slow, And we cannot pass… We cannot pass.
Sunny: Lots of data.
Sunny: So, guys, can we train this LSTM model on a huge amount of data? Tell me, tell me, tell me fast. Can we train this LSTM model on a huge amount…
Sunny: That's why community rejected this model.
Sunny: That's why community rejected that model. Then, who came into the rescue? Tell me, who came into the rescue? This transformer came into the rescue.
Sunny: The transformer guy is how we are passing data. We are passing data parallelly.
Sunny: But if we are passing data parallelly, then we'll have to preserve the sequence of the data, na?
Sunny: Where I have to preserve the sequence of the data now, otherwise this kind of blender will happen, this kind of blender will happen.
Sunny: This kind of problem will happen.
Sunny: And for that only, guys, what we use, tell me what we use. For this only, we use the…
Sunny: Positional and coding.
Sunny: For this only, what we do, guys, we use the positional encoding. Making sense?
Sunny: Correct?
Sunny: So?
Sunny: We were passing data parallelly, but we have to maintain the sequence, and for mentoring that sequence, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be using the positional encoding, which is going to be defined the position of the word.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Great, guys. Now, let's go back to the architecture over here, and let's understand that again. So, we were into this particular stage.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: We were on to this particular stage, guys, positional encoding. Now, what operation we are performing over here?
Sunny: We are doing an addition over here, right? So, after that, guys, what will happen? Well, we are getting this particular vector. Now, this is going to be my actual data.
Sunny: This is going to be what, guys, tell me. This is going to be my actual data. And now, this particular data only, we are going to be feed… this final vector, we are going to be feed to the, cell potential layer, okay?
Sunny: So this particular, this particular, basically, vector only, we are going to be free to the self-attention layer. Let me write over here.
Sunny: This data only, this particular data only.
Sunny: This… data only.
Sunny: we pass.
Sunny: to the… Self-attention.
Sunny: Now, what this self-attention is doing, tell me…
Sunny: what this self-attention is doing. So, self-attention, basically, it is trying to do the word mapping, okay? Means it is trying to find out the word-level relation.
Sunny: Alright? Which word is depending on which one?
Sunny: So, here, you can see, I capped one example for the high-level explanation. I think this I explained in my previous class also. Guys, did I explain this to you in a previous session?
Sunny: Tell me yes or no?
Sunny: So, I explained you this particular example in the previous class. So, this is my first sentence.
Sunny: Sorry, this is my sentence, actually. This is my sentence.
Sunny: Okay, and this is my same sentence.
Sunny: So we are trying to check, we are trying to check this it, actually, it is belonging to which word?
Sunny: What we are checking, guys, tell me, we are checking this 8 is belonging to which word.
Sunny: Okay, so we are checking this word, it belongs to which word inside the given sentence, and this is where the self-attention is trying to help us.
Sunny: This is where the self-attention is trying to help us.
Sunny: This is where our self-attention is trying to help us.
Sunny: Okay, so guys, how this thing is being happened, we'll understand in a tomorrow session, in a detail, okay, on a mathematical level, we'll drive that formula. The formula, basically, which I've shown you, this is the formula of the cell potential. So this is a theoretical explanation of the high-level overview of the cell potential.
Sunny: So, I explained you… I explained this thing with one example. So, this is my first sentence. I think in the previous session also, I explained you that, okay? Now over here, guys, this one.
Sunny: Deepak is asking how position encoding is done in parallel processing to maintain order. See?
Sunny: See, this one. What I written over here.
Sunny: I already returned na.
Sunny: High-level overview in today's session.
Sunny: And mathematical explanation in tomorrow's class.
Sunny: Right? Mathematical explanation tomorrow. Then why you are asking this thing?
Sunny: Tomorrow, I will explain you that thing,
Sunny: Already are written over here.
Sunny: Huh?
Sunny: Okay, so guys, over here, you can see, we're talking about the self-attention, so here I clearly mentioned with one example. So this is my sentence one, money, bank, gross. So if I wanted to represent money, how I will represent it?
Sunny: I will represent like this. W1 money, W2 Bank, W3 grow. Then bank, W1 Money, W2 Bank, W3 grow. Then Grow, W1 money, W2 Bank, W3, grow. So from where this W1, W3, W2, W3, from where this thing is coming, guys, tell me.
Sunny: This thing is coming using the self-attention formula.
Sunny: This thing is coming from the self-attention formula.
Sunny: Okay, and guys, this W1, WT, W3 is not a static one. It's going to be changed according to the context. So, we are talking about the money.
Sunny: So, with respect to that, the W1, W2, W3 will be different. If we're talking about this bank, so with respect to that, this W1, W2, W3 will be different. If we're talking about this GROW, with respect to that, the W1, WT, W2, and W3 will be different.
Sunny: Okay, what is this W1W2W3? It's a weight value. It's a weight value.
Sunny: weights value. Got it, Ruchi?
Sunny: So, over here, this W1, W2, W3 is going to be changed according to the… according to where, according to this particular context, according to this particular word. Likewise only, we are going to be check which word depend on which particular other word.
Sunny: So, if we're talking about this it over here. How we will represent it, guys? Tell me. If we're talking about this it, so we'll represent this it like this. W1, the…
Sunny: Then plus W2 animal.
Sunny: Does, does, dash, dash, das?
Sunny: Whatever word would be there, W and D dash.
Sunny: Okay, so likewise, this it is going to be represent.
Sunny: And this word is going to be defined… this weight is going to be defined. This weight is going to be defined. This weight actually is going to be defined. Which word is playing a more importance. So, over here, can you answer one thing? Guys, we're talking about this 8. So, which weight would be higher over here?
Sunny: Just by reading this particular example, which weight would be higher over here? Animal weight is going to be higher.
Sunny: And how we will drive this thing? We are going to drive this thing using this self-attention formula, and this is what self-attention is doing.
Sunny: This is what self-attention is doing. Making sense to all of you guys? See, here I written one more sentence. River bank flows.
Sunny: River bank flow. So, how we will represent river? Like this.
Sunny: How we will represent bank? Like this. How we will represent flow? Like this.
Sunny: Now, guys, tell me, this W1, W2, W3, this red value is going to be adjust…
Sunny: according to the context of the sentence, tell me yes or no. It's going to be addressed according to the context of the sentence, yes. So this is only a self-attention, and this is the formula of it. This is the formula of the self-attention. So tomorrow we can understand.
Sunny: Now, tell me, on a high level, position encoding and the self-attention is clear to all of you. On a high level, I'm asking.
Sunny: Tell me.
Sunny: Yes?
Sunny: So on a high level, this thing is clear. If still you have a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session.
Sunny: Or basically, you can, go through, or you can one more time go through with this entire session. You will understand that part, okay? You will understand that part. Now, over here, guys, the layer normalization, okay? So tomorrow only, we'll discuss about this layer normalization. I'm not talking about it as of now, this one.
Sunny: this layer normalization, right? Now, this three things is clear, means this layer normalization we'll discuss in the next class, and this two things, positional encoding and the self-attention, is already, clear on a high level, okay? Mathematically, we'll put more effort in tomorrow's session.
Sunny: But over here, guys, we have two questions still. Why residual connection, and why neural network? And before that, we need to understand what is a residual connection. So let's understand that part, guys. So can we understand that part? Can we again go back to the architecture? This is my architecture, guys.
Sunny: And guys, the same architecture you can compare with the actual encoder part.
Sunny: The actual encoder architecture, this one, this I've shown you, no, this one, inside this particular architecture, this one.
Sunny: Just focus over here, see? What we are having, let me show you. We have an input over here. This is the input.
Sunny: Then we have an embedding layer. Then we have a positional encoding. Then this data we are passing through the multi-retention. Then, this is a residual connection. Then this is a normalization layer. Okay, addition, see, they are mentioning the addition, they are not mentioning the concatenation.
Sunny: then we are passing it to the feed-forward network. Then this is the residual connection. Then again, we are adding the normalization. Getting my point. So the same thing, basically, whatever I draw.
Sunny: I draw from here itself, from here itself.
Sunny: Making sense?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Great, guys. Normalization concept, we'll understand in the next class, okay? So, guys, till here, everything is fine. I think this particular data is being passed to the cell potential layer. Now, after passing from the cell potential layer, what is happening, guys? So, over here, you can see this JAD1, JAD2, and JAD3 is being generated.
Sunny: This particular vector is being generated, JET1, JET2, and JET3 vector is being generated. Now, this is what, this is only my contextual embedding.
Sunny: So this is what, guys, this is my contextual embedding.
Sunny: Okay. The showtime… have you learned the showtime bidding?
Sunny: So time bidding, guys, tell me.
Sunny: SOTA embedding, actually, it comes from here itself. The SOTA embedding model, which I've shown you, na?
Sunny: Are you OpenAI emitting model, Jiminy emitting model, I shown you, a state-of-heart model. So it comes from here only, right? Actually, it is not a output of the multi-retential layer, it is an output of the encoder, complete encoder block. So we can say this, actually, this is the…
Sunny: SOTA embedding one, Y1, 2, Y1 norm, Y3 norm. Okay, so it normalizes, means it will be, again, passed through the softmax layer, and then only whatever output will be getting, final one.
Sunny: So that is going to be my… that is going to be what? That is going to be my embedding one, right? So this embedding, actually, it comes from here itself, from this particular architecture only, right? Now, over here, guys, you can see, so this particular data, JAT1, JET2, JAT3 we are getting.
Sunny: And now, inside this JET1, JET2, Jet 3, we are again adding this X1, X2, and X3, this identical information.
Sunny: And…
Sunny: this identical information we are adding over here. So to add this identical information at this particular stage only, it is only called the residual connection.
Sunny: It is only called the residual connection, okay? So, what is this residual connection? Let me explain you that. Let me come to that particular part, right? So, I can explain you over here this residual connection. Guys, I will take 10 more minutes, and I can do that.
Sunny: So, we're talking about the… a residual connection.
Sunny: So, this is not a… new concept.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So, this residual connection is also called the escape connection.
Sunny: Have you heard this particular term? Escape connection, anywhere?
Sunny: Actually, this residual connection term, it is coming from the ResNet.
Sunny: Anyone knows about the ResNet?
Sunny: Actually, it is an architecture of the CNN, one of the architecture of the CNN.
Sunny: If you don't know about it, it is fine, okay? If you don't know about it, it is fine.
Sunny: If you don't know about it, it is fine. No need to put, effort on top of it, but yeah, this term, actually, it is coming from here itself. Even I can show you the research paper also. So, if you will go and check with a Google na.
Sunny: just right over here, RESTNet.
Sunny: Research paper, okay?
Sunny: ResNet research paper. This one. So once you will write this ResNet research paper, actually.
Sunny: You will get it over there, this residual connection concept. So, first time, this connect… this particular concept is introduced in 2015. Now, tell me when this transformer paper have been released.
Sunny: They were talking about the transformer paper and which year it had been released.
Sunny: It is released in 2017 or 18.
Sunny: So, after 2 years, basically, this paper had been released. So, this concept, actually, they took from this particular research paper. So, what is the title of this research paper, guys?
Sunny: The title of the research paper is the Deep Residual Learning for the Image Recognition.
Sunny: So whenever we are going to be… create a deep network, so we keep some information identical, so the information is not going to be lost.
Sunny: Information is not going to be lost.
Sunny: Getting my point. So, if you wanted to understand about this residual connection and all, means just to get some general knowledge and all, okay, just to get some knowledge about it, the CNN architecture and all, you can check out over here. So, see, this is the residual connection, this one. This was a residual connection.
Sunny: Okay, so the same concept, basically, same concept, basically, they have introduced inside the transformer architecture over here.
Sunny: If you will look into the transformer architecture, so inside the transformer architecture also, they have used the same thing. Can you see, guys, this one?
Sunny: Can you see, guys, this one? Is it visible?
Sunny: So, this is only called the residual connection. Now, what it is, guys, what it is, and why it is meta, why it matters. Let me explain you that part also over here. So, we're talking about the residual connection, so this is also called the
Sunny: So this is also called the escape connection. Okay, and why we are doing it? So, this connection, basically, we are going to be create
Sunny: to keep… the information… to keep… the information.
Sunny: To keep the information as it is.
Sunny: to keep the information as it is, okay? Or to keep… the identical information.
Sunny: to keep the identical information. What is our meaning of it? Why we are doing it? Let me tell you that. So guys, here, let's say, I can give you a very basic example, then I kept one slide. With this particular slide, I can explain you that part.
Sunny: So let's say, here I'm writing, what I'm writing, guys.
Sunny: I'm giving you a very basic example, okay? Let's understand with this particular analogy.
Sunny: So, guys, let's say here is a sunny.
Sunny: Alright?
Sunny: Now, guys, what is the meaning of sunny? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny: Let's say I wanted to interpret this sunny. What is the meaning of sunny? Can anyone tell me? Sunny?
Sunny: Sunny. Sunny ka meaning kyahua. Sunny, let's say, sunlight.
Sunny: Someone is saying, hero. Good. Oh, great. So, sunny is what? Sunny is just sunlight. Take away. Sunny corner, sunny sunlight.
Sunny: A sunlight go to sunny bulletin, a sunny day, right?
Sunny: Okay, let's say I'm writing DUP over here.
Sunny: dope.
Sunny: Right? Let's say I'm writing bright over here, bright.
Sunny: Bright.
Sunny: Right?
Sunny: Now, guys, now, guys, just look into this word, bright. It is a bright, right? This bright.
Sunny: Here, what we have? This is a bright, right?
Sunny: Sunny. Do we have sunny over here? Where is Sunny?
Sunny: We have bright over here. So, we have transformed this word, we have transformed this word.
Sunny: We are transforming the information
Sunny: We are… we are doing a transformation of the information, and the information… see, meaning is fine, meaning is same.
Sunny: But guys.
Sunny: Actually, whenever we are looking into this information, then the initial… some initial essence is going to be
Sunny: Like, overlook, right? We are not able to find out some initial essence. So what we are doing… so keep this information intact, this bright information intact, what we are doing, we are saying, sunny, bright.
Sunny: Now, tell me, guys, now it is making more sense?
Sunny: Now, this bright is making more sense. Means, sunny is bright.
Sunny: Sunny is bright.
Sunny: Getting my point, yes or no? Understand… under… did you understood or not? Tell me.
Sunny: Let me explain you one more time, okay? Let's understand it one more time.
Sunny: So what I wanted to say over here, I wanted to say C.
Sunny: Don't worry, guys. Again, I'm explaining you that part.
Sunny: Let's say we have a Sunny.
Sunny: I am transforming this word, Sunny, okay? Let's say Sunny is what?
Sunny: Sunlight.
Sunny: Again, I transform this data, okay? So, Sunny become Dhoop.
Sunny: Again, I transform this data, so sunny become bright.
Sunny: I'm able to understand sunny meaning is bright, but maybe at this point of time, what I'm thinking, the initial information is being loose.
Sunny: If I'm able to do something, if I'm able to do something like this, if I'm going to be connect this sunny with this bright, if I'm writing like this.
Sunny: Bright, plus sunny, or Sunny Bride, Now, tell me, guys.
Sunny: Now, this time it was making more sense, or this time it is making more sense.
Sunny: first time, or second time, at which time it is making more sense. Konse time pe jada bataar aay.
Sunny: ye batarai ya ape.
Sunny: Bright, sunny bright, right? Sunny bright, right?
Sunny: The same thing we are doing over here. The same thing we are doing over here. We are keeping the information intact, actually.
Sunny: We are keeping the information intact using this residual connection. Matlap Samjo, what is happening?
Sunny: Here, here, the transform vector is coming.
Sunny: From the multi-tension. Now, this vector is not going to be lose the context in a longer run, so what we are doing, you know, guys, again, we are going to be add this vector, this original vector inside this transform vector, and we are getting this particular vector, this vector.
Sunny: Understood what is the meaning of the residual connection.
Sunny: residual connection, kuchani kar rah, identical information requirements. Mathlab, pur aniwali information ko utaya, yaha pechepkadia, jisseki information lose now.
Sunny: become dup, right? Sunny is dup over here. Over here, sorry, sunny is bright over here. But how we will understand, bright was the sunny?
Sunny: So, we have added this two things, that's it. So, mathematically, we are just doing a addition of the vector.
Sunny: Mathematically, we are just doing addition of the vector.
Sunny: Understood, guys, tell me yes or no. So here, I written this particular slide, just read it, this particular slide.
Sunny: So, why a residual connection is used? So, deep neural network suffers from vanishing gradient issue, means the weight is going to be negligible.
Sunny: Waits are not going to be update.
Sunny: Weights are not going to be updated.
Sunny: Okay, weights are not going to be updated, means the vector is not going to be trans… means the vector information is going to be loose. Training become unstable. Information getting lost. What is the solution? The solution is the residual connection.
Sunny: Instead of learning.
Sunny: Completely new transformation. What we are doing, model learns, a small improvement over the input. So, if you will look over here, if you will look into the encoder, so what we are doing, guys, tell me. So, this was my input.
Sunny: X1, X2, X3. So over here, we have transformed this vector using the self-attention, and on top of it, again, we are going to be at the same vector, and this particular information, this particular information, we are passing further.
Sunny: So, we will be intacting, okay? We are not going to be lose the info.
Sunny: Understood, tell me, yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny: So here only I written the same explanation, this one.
Sunny: Okay, so why it is going to be help? So, mathematically, if we are going to be understand, so better gradient flow, okay, we are not going to be lose the information, weights are going to be updated properly, faster training, prevent information loss, okay, and enable deep staking. And because of this type of thing only, guys, we are able to create a deep network.
Sunny: Just Deco, Deco, guys. See over here. What is the research paper name? If you will look into the residual research paper name, what is the name of it? Tell me.
Sunny: Deep residual learning from the image recognition.
Sunny: So because of this kind of concept only, we are able to create a deep network. We are able to create a deep network because of this kind of concept only.
Sunny: It is able to retain the better context, correct.
Sunny: Got it, guys? Why we, basically, we were using the residual connection?
Sunny: So guys, how is the explanation so far?
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: I think each and every terminology is going to be clear. I told you now, guys, just be with me, everything will be clarified with respect to the transformer and all, okay?
Sunny: Now, guys, the next question, basically, why the feed-forward neural network?
Sunny: So let's see what is happening again, if you will look into this particular flow, basically.
Sunny: So, if you will look into this particular flow, then what is happening?
Sunny: the information, this particular information, basically is going to be passed, okay? So this particular information, JET1 norm, JET2 norm, and JET3 norm, whatever I'm getting after the layer normalization.
Sunny: So, this, will be passed to the neural network, okay, over here.
Sunny: Now, here is what, here is what, here is the, data from the neural network.
Sunny: And then again, this particular data, the residual connection, again, we are performing the residual connection over here. I think you know why we are doing that.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: And after that, guys, what will happen? We are passing the data from the layer non-visation.
Sunny: And then, we are getting this Y1 norm.
Sunny: Y2 norm, and Y3 norm. So this is my final vector, final data.
Sunny: Which we are getting from the encoder.
Sunny: Okay, now over here, guys, if you will see, so we are using a neural network over here.
Sunny: So why this feed-forward neural network is there? I kept the reason over here.
Sunny: So, see, we're talking about the self-attention, so what it is doing, it's going to be learn the information across the token. I mean, it is trying to find out the word-level relation.
Sunny: tell me, yes or no, guys, if we're talking about the self-attention, so it is trying to find out the word-level relation. So what this feed-forward neural network is doing.
Sunny: So, it's going to be process, the data, okay, it's going to be processed the data independently. Each token is being processed from this particular network. This is a feed-forward network, guys, okay? Just a mathematical equation of that.
Sunny: And this is the architecture of the feed-forward network inside the original research paper.
Sunny: Original research paper.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So this is… this is representing to the input layer.
Sunny: This is represented to the header layer.
Sunny: And this is representing to the output layer. So, input layer is there.
Sunny: The dimension of the input layer was the 512, then dimension of the header layer was the 2048.
Sunny: and then dimension of the output layer, okay? So this particular layer, the dimension was this particular layer, this was the 512, means 512 dimension vector was being passed over here.
Sunny: Okay, then this is 2048.
Sunny: And this is, again, 50512, basically.
Sunny: Okay?
Sunny: So this was a dimension. Now, why, basically, we were doing that? So that we can learn the complex pattern from the data. Again, we can decode the information from the vector, from the data.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Again, we can decode the information. Decode the information from the data.
Sunny: Right? Just a second, guys.
Sunny: Again, we can decode the information from the data.
Sunny: Or we can add some nonlinearity, right? Non-linear pattern inside the data. Means we can capture some nonlinear behavior of the data.
Sunny: Getting my point? So just to learn some more complex pattern from the data, after the self-attention, they have used this particular neural network.
Sunny: Understood, guys, yes or no?
Sunny: So the data is being passed from the neural network, and they were trying to decode the data more and more, and they were trying to find some non-linear pattern from the data. I can explain you that, see.
Sunny: If we're talking about the data, So…
Sunny: How could be the data, guys? See, the data could be like this. Let's say this is the data which I'm drawing. Okay? This is just an example, guys. This one.
Sunny: This is just an example, okay? This is the data.
Sunny: Now, if you have a linear model, so how the linear model looks like, this is a linear model, guys.
Sunny: Okay, so this linear model, actually.
Sunny: Linear model. Have you learned the linear regression?
Sunny: Linear regression.
Sunny: So it's my linear regression, right?
Sunny: So we create a best-fit line over here. Now, we're talking about the neural network, so the neural network will not be like this.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: The neural network will not be like this, and that's why, guys, neural network is performing well.
Sunny: On top of this.
Sunny: regression model. So let's say this is my data, right? This is my data. So how the neural network would be? The neural network would be like this.
Sunny: So this is what? This is my neural network.
Sunny: So, neural network and nonlinearity… neural network capture the nonlinear pattern from the data.
Sunny: nonlinear pattern.
Sunny: from the data.
Sunny: It captures the complex pattern from the data.
Sunny: It is going to be capture the complex pattern from the data.
Sunny: On the other hand, if we're talking about the linear model, so it's a straightforward. It's not going to be capture the complex pattern, right? So just to capture this complex pattern of the data.
Sunny: After the self-attention, after the self-attention, after the self-attention.
Sunny: Okay? After the self-attention means the word-level attention, word-level attention.
Sunny: Further, if we wanted to capture the more complex pattern from the data.
Sunny: More complex pattern from the data.
Sunny: more complex pattern from the data. For that, guys, they have used the neural network.
Sunny: The idea is very, very simple. To decode information more.
Sunny: To decode information more.
Sunny: Understood, guys? Yes or no? Tell me, how is the explanation so far? Did you understand all this concept?
Sunny: Why this, that, and all?
Sunny: So, will you revise all this thing?
Sunny: Okay? So this is our encoder explanation. Encoder explanation, guys.
Sunny: Okay, now over here, guys, these many things we have to be discussed. I return over here.
Sunny: So, conceptually, I have explained you this thing. If someone is going to be asked you in an interview, please explain that in a same way. They will not ask you anything more. This concept, you understand on a high level. So, did you understand this concept on a high level, guys? Tell me, yes or no?
Sunny: Now, again, we'll deep dive into this particular concept, and tomorrow, again, I will take one more session about the transformer, and next to next week, guys, we'll understand the component of the decoder, and then I'll share the code with you, and then I'm going to be wrap up this transformer.
Sunny: Okay? And then, we'll… we are going to be, then, guys, we are going to be entering our actual generative AI, modern generative AI route. That's going to be a LLM, Large Language Model.
Sunny: will understand how to access the LLM using the API, how to perform the fine-tuning and all, everything will understand.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Great, fine, thank you guys. I think we are done for today's, we are done, I think, with today's session.
Sunny: So, I hope you liked the explanation and all everything. So, tell me, guys, how much you would like to rate. If you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask me in a doubt session, okay?
Sunny: Yes, Vishnu, I'll check that, and I'll reply to you, don't worry.
Sunny: Vishnu Varda, okay?
Sunny: Okay. Fine, guys, so it's your time now, it's your turn, please try to revise all this concept, and after that, again, we'll meet inside the next session. If you don't have any doubt, guys, you can drop the session, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, I'm pushing the co… I'm pushing all the, basically notes and all everything. Just a second.
Sunny: So, class time 0110 notes, this is fine. Now I'm going to push it, guys. So, guys, if you're finding any difficult… means if you're getting any error now over the GitHub render block or something like that, then download the resource, okay? It will come inside your system, and it won't give you that particular error. Got it?
Sunny: Okay, so… over here, where is the notes? Just a second, guys.
Sunny: Guys, I'm providing you the notes, give me a moment, wait.
Sunny: Okay, guys, I have given you the notes. Please check out with the GitHub now, wait.
Sunny: Yeah, it's here.
Sunny: After completing this module, I will give you the assignment.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Fine, guys, if you don't have any doubt, you can drop the session. If you have any doubt, be here. I will be taking the doubts after 5 minutes. Thank you, guys, thank you very much. Tomorrow, again, we'll connect for the same, continuation, and tomorrow, we'll deep dive into some sort of a concept. Thank you, bye. Take care, guys. Good night, okay? Be there if you have any doubt.
Sunny: Yeah, good night.
Mantaaj: Hi, Sunny.
Mantaaj: No idea!
Sunny: Yeah, Mantach, please go ahead with the route.
Mantaaj: Yeah, Sanek, I have two doubts. Can you just share your screen with the notes? And go to the encoder diagram, please?
Sunny: Yeah, sure.
Sunny: Yeah, please.
Mantaaj: No, the other one, where we, where we have given this… over here, yes. So, when we… yeah, can you scroll a little down, please? Little down? Where we have positional… so, when we talk about this positional encoders, right, when we are giving the dimensions,
Mantaaj: Or these paritional encoder dimensions will be equivalent to the embedded vectors only, or it will… how we define it out?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, it is equal to embedded vector only, correct.
Mantaaj: Okay, it will be equal to that only, okay. And my other question is that here we are using, for embeddings, we are using Word2VAC, right, for embedding layer.
Mantaaj: app transformer also provides us the embedding matrix, right, which is far better than the Word2VEC, correct?
Mantaaj: Because there, in the case of word-to-back, it only give us word-to-word meaning only, right?
Sunny: Nay, no, no, sir. Si transformer architecture tom banar hai, na, bhak. Mta banagaya bhi.
Sunny: usme konsi kis forma embeddin dalata.
Sunny: 1 or 10 coded vector dalitinama ape.
Mantaaj: Hahaha huh.
Sunny: Abi transformer architecture banar hain. Lekin, is model mein data ko process karne kilibi to data numbers mein cheh ye, toho bartu bag vector se banarai yang.
Mantaaj: Okay, but transformer, I'm not going to use karte, but later, then we started using… for embedding some transformer ki, he used karte the agi.
Sunny: Correct, correct.
Mantaaj: Okay, okay, take care. Take care. Understood.
Mantaaj: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, thank you, sir.
Sunny: Yeah, next out is… yeah, Mr. Arvin, please go ahead.
Mr Aravind: Hey, hi, Sunny.
Sunny: Yeah, hello.
Mr Aravind: Can you just, share your screen, and I just wanted to understand why are we creating multiple, vectors and embeddings in the encoding part?
Mr Aravind: multiple times, we are doing that, right? So, see here, embeddings E1, E2, E3, then we are giving the position for all those embeddings. After that, again, we are creating vector, and after that.
Sunny: No, no, we are not creating that. It is the same vector which is being transformed, so I'm just giving a different name to the temp. So it's the same information which is being transformed from the different, different layers, actually, okay?
Mr Aravind: Oh, okay, it's the same vector.
Sunny: Same information. It is transforming on a different, different level. And finally, I'm getting this transform information.
Mr Aravind: Okay, okay, I got it. Thank you.
Sunny: Tengers.
Sunny: Okay, Arvin, this is done now. Raju, what's your… Raghu, what's your doubt?
anilp: Hi, Sunit, this is Anil here.
anilp: Hello?
anilp: Sandi can inquire?
anilp: Hello.
anilp: Sandy, can you hear me?
anilp: Hello?
anilp: Oh, Sunny?
Sunny: Sorry, sorry, I was on mute. Yes, Anil, please go ahead.
anilp: Yeah, Sunny, I have a couple of questions, okay? What we are doing here is we are, we are passing this,
anilp: what is it, self-attention output to a feed-forward network, right? So, what is a guarantee that this FFN will not
anilp: will not correct the output of self-attention layer, and it will maintain the session context as it is. What is a guarantee here?
Sunny: Guarantee, sir, we check with the final accuracy, no, we cannot check the output, this output, right? We get the output after that, we check the accuracy of the model, we perform the multiple epoch, okay, we train these weights again and again, and then if the accuracy is going to be good, then we say, this is our final model.
Sunny: Right?
anilp: Okay.
Sunny: So, guarantee is not like that. It is all about training, experiment, and all, that's it.
anilp: Paris is a long word.
Sunny: In the field of AI. What is a guarantee that ChatGPT will give you the correct information? Tell me.
anilp: Okay.
Sunny: There is no guarantee, right?
anilp: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny: Even… they are also saying ChatGPT can give you the wrong information. Now, why they are saying? In a disclaimer, if you have… you will see with that ChatGPT. Now, why they are saying? Because
Sunny: They don't also have a guarantee of that, correct?
Sunny: So, this model does not give you guarantee, it just rely on the direct training, actually.
anilp: In the training, okay, okay.
anilp: So, my next question is, so for this, for the intro purpose, right, should we remember all these dimensions of models, what we are used? Will it be asked the interviews?
Sunny: In interview, basically, they will ask you how self-attention works, how DAC transformer encoder works, okay, what is the meaning of the layer normalization, what is a feed-forward neural network is doing.
anilp: Right?
Sunny: And, this kind of question you might get. So if you have an overall understanding of the architecture, you can answer any of the questions. Got it?
anilp: And my third question is, in some images, right, of this transformer architecture, I see that a normalization block has been kept before self-attention.
Sunny: Hmm. Kahomper.
Sunny: Sorry. Where? Where?
anilp: I have… I have one with me. I can put that image…
anilp: In the chat, okay, see, this, this layer, right? This add a norm. Add a norm. In, in some images I see from Google, which I downloaded, this has been placed before, multi-head attention, that is, before self-attention.
Sunny: This architecture I took from the original research paper, okay? And I have shown… I have shown you all the intuition behalf on that original research paper. In some other architecture, at some places, if they have tweaked this thing, it is acceptable, because as I told you, it is all the experimental thing.
Sunny: So, you can modify it accordingly, actually. So, in other LLMs, in any other architecture, they have used a self-attention earlier, or, sorry, they have used a normalization earlier.
Sunny: or any other model over here before the self-attention. This is totally acceptable, okay? So that's why at the first place, I have shown you this original research paper, and behalf on that only, I'm explaining you that. Got it?
Sunny: Because there could be multiple variants of that, okay?
anilp: Okay, so, it will not, it will not, do the basic Understanding of transformer architecture.
Sunny: No, no, no. In interview, no one will ask you a question like this. They will ask you the flow, they will ask you the particular concept, particular component.
Sunny: What is a self-attention? What's a multiple, multi-setter self-attention? What is a cross-encoder? Sorry, what is a cross-attention and all. This kind of question, they will ask you. They will ask you why the multiple encoder block they have created… they have took.
anilp: Okay.
Sunny: And what was the benefit of it. So, the overall understanding of the architecture is a useful one, got it?
anilp: Okay, Sunny, thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, thanks.
Sunny: Okay, next out is, Aslam, please go ahead with the doubt.
Aslam Husain: Thanks a lot, Sami. This is very good.
Aslam Husain: Actually, I asked this question already in the chat, so yes, respond to me. Thanks, Yash, if you're listening.
Sunny: Mexico.
Aslam Husain: In the transformer model, we have two components, right? One is the input, and the other is the output, two components are there, and decoder, encoder side and decoder side. But you also mentioned that some of the LLMs, like BERT is based on encoder side.
Aslam Husain: And then GPT based on the core size, so… so I'm just really confused at why these LLMs are staking, like, Bert is wanting to take the encoder side of the transformer model, and GPTs took the decoder side of the transformer model. What was the reason behind it, and why they didn't take the complete transformer model?
Sunny: The reason, basically, there was no such reason. Reason means they took the encoder part.
Sunny: They have, like, basically trained on some data, okay? Whatever task they wanted to do, they were able to do with that. Means, in the early stage of the, this, natural language processing, right, in 2017 and 18,
Sunny: We were doing the tasks like text summarization, text classification, and all. So, to keeping those tasks in our mind, basically, they were training the model. They were not training the, general purpose model like we have currently.
Sunny: Okay. So, initially, the bot is created with that intention. They just took the encoder part, and they processed the data with that. They didn't pass it to the decoder, because the decoder part, they have used for the translation purpose. Encoder was encoding the value, decoder was translating the value, right?
Sunny: So they thought, why to use this thing? We are not translating the thing, we are just summarizing the thing, we are just doing the text classification. If the same thing is happening with the encoder, then they have used the encoder.
Sunny: Then came the… to the GPT. So, GPT, basically, again, they were trying to predict the next token. So, in the next token prediction, again, the translation concept was not getting fit. Means the decoder, that, next token prediction, basically, they were able to perform well with the decoder side of the model. Okay, so they have used a decoder. Means.
Sunny: It is not like that they have used the encoder-decoder. They were… the problem is specific.
Sunny: So this entire architecture, basically, it was created earlier for the machine translation. They found, okay, we are not solving this particular problem statement, we are solving the other NLP-related problem statement.
Sunny: Right? Like, text classification, next token prediction, something like that. So it is able… we are able to do it with one side of architecture, that they have used that only. Got it?
Aslam Husain: Do you have any scenario that, okay, I'm just curious to know that, okay, they can use both the side of the transform model?
Sunny: Yes, T5 is a model, I can show you that, just a second. So, many of the models basically have used both, actually.
Sunny: Both sides of the model.
Aslam Husain: very new to that, this whole, this concept, but I'm trying to understand that why this one side and not the other side, but thanks for explaining it a little bit. I'll read more something about that, if you have any questions, I have a follow-up question with you, maybe later.
Sunny: Yeah, just a second. I'm showing you one image, maybe with that…
Sunny: I think I only created that…
Sunny: Huh, let me share the screen.
Sunny: Can you see this one?
Aslam Husain: Yes.
Sunny: See, this BERT, Robert, XLM, Albert, Elektra, Diberta, this was the encoder-based model. GPT, GPT-2, GPT-3, GPT Neo, all the GPT, basically, it was the decoder-based model. Now, T5, BART, M2M100, BigBot, and several other models, there was the encoder and decoder-based model.
Sunny: So, this is called sequence-to-sequence learning, and this encoder and decoder, basically, they were using for the translation. So, encoder was taking the data in one language, and decoder was decoding the data in another language. So, encoder and decoder, all together, they were using for the translation.
Sunny: Okay, then what this GPT did, actually, GPT actually did the pre-training. This OpenAI did the pre-training on top of the entire internet data that was the next token prediction, and they performed the supervised fine-tuning, the concept from the ULM FIT research paper. And because of that only, they were able to create the journal-purpose model.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Getting my point.
Sunny: So, earlier, the transform… this transformer-based model, this model, basically, it was a problem-specific model.
Sunny: agaram ko classification karna hai, toham ye model use kareenge, summarization karna hai toh, ye sare, agaram ko translation karna hai toh, yay model use kareenge, agaram ko ko generation related task hai, yay model use karenge. Problem specific model thee, general purpose model nahi thee. Ho general purpose model, kura pipeline ke baad bane. That was a pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, preference alignment.
Sunny: And because of that only, we are able to see those general purpose models. Got it?
Aslam Husain: Thank you.
Aslam Husain: A lot of things went on top of my head, but I have to read through this. Thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, don't worry, just learn all this thing, okay? Just go with one iteration. If you have any other doubt, then you can ask me in the next class, okay?
Aslam Husain: Okay, thanks a lot, thank you.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: But without encoder, how they will decode? In next token prediction, what we are going to be decode, huh?
Sunny: In translation, you are going to be decoderna, the data in the another language, Getting my point so quick.
Sunny: Okay, don't worry, by that time, this understanding will be created.
Sunny: Janelle, what's a doubt?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Hi, Sunny. Yeah, thank you for giving me a chance. So, can you please share your screen? I just wanted to understand why any neural network in encoder a bit lagging on that part.
Sunny: By the neural network, sorry.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Hawaii Naval Network and, Encoding.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: the last point you have explained, right? So, I didn't understand completely on that.
Sunny: Which one? Sorry.
Sunny: Can you tell me again? This… okay, you're asking why neural network was being used there, correct?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Correct, correct, yeah.
Sunny: Okay, just a second. I can explain you. What is the use of the neural network? First of all, tell me.
Sunny: Tell me what is the use of the neural network?
Sunny: This is a neural network, right?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny: Yeah, why we are using this neural network, tell me.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: To identify the output, right? Like… Attention of the world.
Sunny: decline to Bolognail.
Sunny: Have you learned neural networks?
Sunny: See, this neural network we are using for what? For the supervised learning.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Okay.
Sunny: Of supervised learning me kya hot hai.
Sunny: Supervised learning may have classification karte hain.
Sunny: I know?
Sunny: I'm regression karte hain.
Sunny: model ye data hai.
Sunny: aega, tumko.
Sunny: predict karke din hai. Yeh, neural network ka kam hai, matla, supervised learning hum karte hain, ki that classification or regression, telehe model ko train kar deity karte hain. Au humare pass ka hai, deko self-attention ke vector toh agai.
Sunny: self-attaching ke vector, ab isko toh final output hum bhani sakte, right? Toh is information ko humne fit neural network of pass kia, kuch aur learning kil. Abham ko koch aur learnable parameters chai ye, say ye wah sam ko che jete.
Sunny: Right? Abh ye kya karne ha ko ye, actually mein transformer bhi supervised learning hi karna hai.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Okay.
Sunny: I'm training jo kare hao, supervised learning karay matla usko data dikhake, aurusko output dikake boldah hai, next time agar sa output ay toh ye generate karke de na.
Sunny: Toh, wahap hai, hum ye neural networkade is data keeper, ke bait events will learn ojayenge, toham ko angge aur information ko tech karne mein, easy hoga, mat lab bijeko pura research-based dosaya.
Sunny: Whatever,
Sunny: whatever research they have done, right, in their research labs and all, correct? So, it is the outcome of that. Maybe first time they have just used our attention, maybe they were getting the bad accuracy, then they have used a neural network to decode the information, the neural net… the accuracy got improved, so that's why they kept it inside the architecture, right?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Okay.
Sunny: Yeah. Okay.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Yeah, thanks. Another question is, like, the encoding architecture in existing, like, open source model and all, right? So, all are, like, constructed for us, like, we do not know how they have achieved, right? So, suppose we wanted to develop any model. So, how this encoding we can achieve?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: like… Complex architecture, right?
Sunny: In a same way you will code, no? You can code this entire architecture in transform… in PyTorch completely.
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Okay, so, I mean, some stark basis, we have to, code…
Sunny: Hmm, you can quarter that.
Sunny: This, you can write the code from scratch, or, nowadays you have Hugging Face kind of library, which is, which has already coded all this thing, okay?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: To come to the market.
Sunny: Later I'll show you that, okay?
ANIL KUMAR MEHER: Okay, okay, I understand, yeah, okay, thank you, I understand, yeah, thanks.
Sunny: Yes. Yes, Shukla, what's your dog?
Sunny: Lakshmi, Josuna, anyone is there? Please go ahead.
Yash Shukla: Yes, she did.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, what's the doubt?
Yash Shukla: Regarding, from the previous, whole session, the session you gave in advance and LP, I studied about transformers. So, like, today you told us about, transformer encoder and transformer decoder. So, I just wanted to ask, the NX portion, in which the number of encoders and number of decoders were on each side, so, they were experimentally equal, coming to be 6-6, or it was…
Yash Shukla: To make them, equalize, or something like that.
Yash Shukla: Sir, am I audible?
Sunny: Yeah, sorry, actually, I was on mute, yeah. You were saying 6-6 was there, right? Yeah, 6-6, actually, they kept the 6-6 only. But, it's not mandatory that you are going to be keep a 6-6, just a second, I can show you that.
Yash Shukla: I was told it was experimental.
Sunny: Hi, I experimental. See, this one.
Sunny: The encoder is composed of the stack of 6 identical layers.
Sunny: Each layer has two sublayer. The first is a multi-cell retention.
Sunny: And second is simple, position-wise, fully connected, feed-forward network, right? See, decoderma decode.
Sunny: A decoder is also composed of a stack of n is equal to 6 identical layer. Identical means same layer.
Sunny: Okay, so on the same irkata, but if you are going to create your own model, you can keep it different also.
Sunny: Right?
Yash Shukla: Sir, usme je se agaram decoder transformer ki baat kartein. To jise, the world decoder is more dominant over there. Asa, ka, usme fir nq value for decoder side, zadaw jaati ki…
Sunny: N key value, sorry, I didn't get that.
Yash Shukla: So, like, in normal transformer, we are getting n is equal to 6 for both the encoder and decoder part. But, for example, in GPT model, which is transformal decoder model, basically, it is more on the decoder side. So here, in decoder model, NQ values are zero, the NQ.
Sunny: Correct, correct. Ankara research paper, maybe mention Kia.
Yash Shukla: Also, the core questions, keep continuing plot concept models based, for example, keyword…
Sunny: Which one, sorry?
Yash Shukla: GPT is transformer decoder, BERT is encoder, transformer.
Sunny: model, decoder model only. They have used a decoder only, see? This is improving language intervention, but genitive pre-tailing. I think it is from the GPT-1, let me check.
Sunny: Deliver semi-supervised learning for those unsupervised pre-training? See?
Sunny: Auxiliative framework, unsupervised, supervised fine-tuning.
Sunny: then this is the architect. See, text position embedding, multi-mask, multi-ness transportation, layer, no, feed-forward, this is a decoder architecture, okay?
Sunny: Now, how many decoders they have used?
Sunny: After reading this now, we'll get it, actually.
Sunny: So, Igbar is research paper ko dekline kyarna. We train a 12-layer of decoder only. Initially, 12-layer of kyata.
Yash Shukla: aka.
Sunny: Naita, na, kyo kyun ko translation task ni karna. Next token prediction kar raito, decoder si hogiatha.
Yash Shukla: First, where do we solve it?
Sunny: ye mask self attention ka concept, ausseh hojata naksu kan prediction, ya wala concept seh. mask health attention. Is me ka karte hai ik word ko mask karte thing, usko predict karte hain bush, ye karte. Simple sa kame. Iske karna yeh.
Yash Shukla: jarath, if I'm not wrong.
Sunny: mask self-attention, wala, okay?
Yash Shukla: Okay, sir.
Sunny: So, us seh kyata research paper poly agar. Tula saisko chat GPT summarize karl yakur is message.
Yash Shukla: Oof.
Sunny: Cafe information, Melindaiga, okay?
Yash Shukla: Oh, perspective.
Yash Shukla: Thank you, sir.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, Lakshmi, Josuna, anyone is there, guys, go ahead, please.
Jyotsna: Hello?
Jyotsna: I'm audible.
Sunny: Yeah, Jocelyn, you're audible.
Jyotsna: Yeah, hi Sammy. Yes, last time also now, I have asked a question regarding, like, I have built one application, okay, using this Grok LLM, and I have used that versatile model.
Jyotsna: So in my application now, I have, like, Excel, and in Excel, there are multiple, like, headers. Okay, you can say almost 160,
Jyotsna: columns, and I do my push on it, okay? It's working properly with this Grok LLM University. But now, I… I… last time I messaged, like, on this chat.
Jyotsna: I do not want to expose this sensitive data to online. So I, so on that, you would reply on that, use the OLAMA.
Jyotsna: So, I tried with the Olama, like, Ollama 3.2, like, latest version that's 5GB, and I use that, but no, I'm getting the timeout error.
Jyotsna: And it shows that, like, that, hardware, something you show, like, your hardware is not supporting to this model. I'm not sure why it's, giving me, and they suggested me to use some… a small model, like, LAMA 3.2, that is something 2GB.
Jyotsna: Okay? So here now, I use that also, so that also gives me timeout error.
Jyotsna: And later I searched on ChartGPT, now they showed me that your prompt is big.
Jyotsna: So, I use BigCrog, and then, because of that, I'm not able to get that, output, you can say. So, here they suggested me the chunking strategy, and so many more things. So, now I'm here, I'm not understanding how I can, like, overcome, with this, because I have, you know, two requirements here. I want to use…
Jyotsna: free model, I don't want any paid service, and
Jyotsna: Second one is, like, I don't want to expose my data online.
Karthik: Cool.
Jyotsna: Here, olama?
Jyotsna: It's not working properly.
Karthik: Want to just… we multiply 0.1…
Sunny: The OL arm actually is having a constraint, means that it is having a.
Jyotsna: system.
Sunny: dependency. If your system is not good, it will not work, actually. So, if you're doing it for your comp… yeah, if you're doing it for your company, then ask for the better server for them to configure the OLAMA.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Otherwise, in your system, it will give the issue. So, you can use the even smaller model, Tiny Llama model, and the other smaller model is there, which is having less than 1.5 billion parameter, even one 1.5 billion parameter model, that will work fine. What is your system configuration?
Jyotsna: Like, I think 16GB RAM. GPU.
Sunny: 16GB Kesat nahi gamgareka, mah
Sunny: at least increase the RAM, just keep it at least 32GB. Double the RAM, okay? You will see the enhancement, actually. Because it takes a lot of memory in backend. If you have 16GB RAM memory, if you're going to be low 10 to 12GB of model, then how it will work? Other processes are also running, no?
Jyotsna: J.
Sunny: So, increase.
Jyotsna: And even GPU would be mereismein hai name, sir.
Sunny: GPU is fine. If you don't have GPU, then in that case also, you can use the OLAMA with CPU also, okay?
Jyotsna: That's…
Sunny: So that is not a case. For the inferencing, it is not required. GPU is required for the training and for the faster inferencing.
Sunny: But over the CPU also, you can do the inferencing, right? But the condition is your system configuration should be good.
Sunny: Okay.
Jyotsna: Okay.
Sunny: getting timeout error, if your model… if your system is giving the memory… out-of-memory error, means you have a system constraint. With 16GB of RAM, ma'am, forget. You will not be able to run OLAMA. Even with… with my 32GB of RAM, it's going to be stuck. If I'm going to load a model.
Jyotsna: Mmm.
Sunny: I have a very advanced system, but it still is going to be stuck. So, with normal system, 16GB of RAM, it will give you issues.
Sunny: So, you have two things. First, correct the configuration, keep some higher configuration in local.
Sunny: OLAMAS somewhere on some other server, on your private server, now expose it as an API, and then consume that, okay?
Jyotsna: Okay, okay. And the second way, also, you have mentioned, like, hurling face, okay? So, how concerned I can use that? Is it open, like, models that.
Sunny: Yeah, Hugging Face model also you can use, but again, if you will load it in your local memory, it will give you memory.
Jyotsna: That also seems…
Sunny: Yeah, same.
Jyotsna: Just the goal now?
Sunny: what Olama is doing. It is similar to the Hugging Face. Olama is having their own hub, Hugging Face is having their own hub, that's it. Both doing the same thing, na. Netflix sa movie, Deco, Amazon Prime sa deco.
Jyotsna: Okay, that's, one big question. Okay.
Sunny: Indy.
Jyotsna: Thank you so much.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you, man.
Jyotsna: effects.
marina: Okay.
Sunny: Your next doubt is?
marina: Hi, sir, this is Marina here.
Niv: It's not weird.
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, please go ahead.
marina: Yeah, so actually, we are using, like, we are building a use case in our company for a legal team. So, the use case is, like, they will be having the contracts in an ERP system, and we need to download those contracts and match with the standard template, and see if there is any deviation from the original contract.
marina: So, what, we are creating a pipeline, like, where it is downloading every day the contracts, then, parsing the PDFs, extracting the clause, then we are doing the vector, index and all, like, how we do encoding and all, vector index, and then we are, doing the deviation analysis. So, this is like a basic pipeline we are doing at the back end, and in the front end, we are using an app. So, this is an AI app where the user can go
marina: can ask about any questions, like, maybe which is a standard, is this a standard template? I mean, is this a standard contract matching with the company's template? Or, the, like, they'll ask, like,
marina: like, we have so many vendors, with our company, so the contract which was signed with this particular vendor has, like, in general, they can ask a lot of questions, like, have a liability cap or not, so all those questions. Now, in the ba- in the front end, sir, like, in the app side, I have created an,
marina: orchestrator, so that will be having some tools, because in semantic search, we are not getting, only we're getting us, like, the general questions, but when it comes to, like, numerical questions, so I have built some tools. Now, I'm getting an issue with the routing part, so the LLM is getting confused, like, like, which route it has to follow.
marina: So, sometimes, like, it gives a question, sometimes, like, the app gives them timeout.
marina: So, like, what, like, not getting, like, is it the routing issue, or the, like, pipeline issue at the backend on which the LLM is not able to derive the question? So, I actually, sent you mail also, I mean, in the link in also, so…
Sunny: Ma'am, routing issue and all, basically, it's a low-level issue of the code, whatever code you have written there, right? And, see, until we are not looking into that code, that flow, how we can say that.
marina: So, can I send you an email with my architecture, like, how I…
Sunny: See, first let me tell you something. If you're going to be, rely on the LLM to make a decision for the routing, correct? So, it might give you the wrong answer as well, right? Because LLM depends on the prompt, context, right?
marina: And then…
Sunny: information which is get… which the LLM is getting. So if some information is going to be wrong to the LLM, if it's not going to be aligned according to your answer and all.
Sunny: maybe it might give you the wrong route. So, first of all, you will have to remove that dependency. You will have to be more… you will have to be… create the deterministic flow instead of the probabilistic flow, okay? So, if you're going to be… keep your… if you are going to be… leave all the decision-making over the LLM, in that case, your, this,
Sunny: pipeline might be filled, okay? Because LLM is a probabilistic model, right? Means it depends on the probability or the context which is getting. So, here you will have to be, like, keeps deterministic flow.
Sunny: Deterministic flow means what? You will have to determine the step, okay, you will have to keep the more authority, more authority over the flow. Okay, then maybe it will follow the correct routing. Getting my point.
Sunny: So, just make a deterministic flow instead of the probabilistic flow. Remove the LLM dependency from your LLM flow. Okay, more dependency, I'm seeing, okay? Keep the LLM for the generation only, right? If you are going to be due in that way, maybe you will get a correct routing and the correct output.
Sunny: Got it?
marina: Okay, so can I send, like, the design in your email, at least, like, for a…
Sunny: You can send that, ma'am, okay? You can send, I don't have any issue, but again, if you are going to be deep dive, or if you're going to be, like, doing it by yourself, right, that, back and forth on the problem statement, I think you will have a great learning in that case, right?
Sunny: Otherwise, I can look into that, I can maybe give you some suggestion, you can implement that, it might work, it might not work.
Sunny: Right? But I think you know the concept, but you're not getting the confidence to implement it by yourself. But yeah, at the end, you have to do it only, right? So, do some back and forth, and…
marina: which I'm doing. Just, I'll send you over an email just over all the high-level steps. You can just tell me, like, whether this routing is correct or not, so can I do that in email?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, you can do that, ma'am, okay?
marina: Okay, thank you, Sonya. I'll send you an email, sir, please.
Sunny: True.
marina: Okay, thank you.
Karthik: Definitely.
Sunny: Don't.
Niv: Hi, Sunny.
Sunny: Yeah, Karthik, please go ahead.
Karthik: So, Sunny Apne will explain the encoder, encoder, and decoder for our pipeline, there's the entire pipeline, basically. Nice.
Charles Fon: No.
Sunny: Your voice is not clear, Karthik.
Karthik: Okay. Is it fine now, Sunny? Is it fine?
Sunny: Yeah, it is fine, and someone is saying, can you speak in English? Okay, please speak in English, okay?
Karthik: Okay, sure, sure, we got it. So.
Charles Fon: a form of speaking in Hindu. You know, there are some times that you… you can answer a question, or ask a question, then you'll gain something out of it, you know?
Karthik: Yeah, sure, sure.
Sunny: Yeah, no worry, no worry, Charles. Yeah, yeah, please speak in English, Karathi, okay?
Karthik: Yeah, so, Sunny, you showed that entire pipeline, right? Where there is an encoder, and that is coupled with a decoder, and this is a use case wherein we are going for a translation, for example, English to Spanish, English to Hindi kind of a thing.
Sunny: Hmm.
Karthik: this thing, right? Language translation is basically… Now, when we go for a decoder-only architecture, our SOTA models, like GPT and all, there are pre-trained models that goes on a decoder-only architecture.
Karthik: So, decoder-only architecture goes on for predictions, predicting the expert, right? So, what would be the encoder-only architecture give us? If I want to utilize only encoder-only architecture, what is the use case, what it covers?
Karthik: If I don't… I decoup an encoder with the decoder. I only want encoder, no? I mean, what… what…
Sunny: encoder-based architect… encoder was, sorry, encoder-based architecture was having text classification, text summarization, this kind of use cases. Bert model, you know, BERT model, Roberta model, Robert, and distal BERT…
Sunny: model was quite famous in 2020 and 21 itself for solving this kind of task, actually. So, this is a typical example of the encoder-based model. Text classification and the entity classification, POS tagging, text summarization. That's it.
Karthik: So, when you tag encoder with the decoder, it becomes a translation architecture. When you go for.
Sunny: Yes, yes, yes.
Karthik: Thanks, this is what I… sorry, sorry for the efficiency.
Niv: Hi, Sandra.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Neguna.
Sunny: Yes, Nar…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Nicely.
Sunny: Yo.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So, can you quickly share your screen? I have a question mostly on the… your slide number 6.
Sunny: Just a second, I'm sharing.
Sunny: Guys, if you have asked your doubt, then please, lower your hand, okay? Because I get confused sometimes. Thank you.
Sunny: Yeah, I'm sharing the screen.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yes, that's my number.
Sunny: Which one? You are… which one?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Sixth, sixth… Number 6.
Sunny: 6… This moon?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Oh, no, maybe 9… okay, you… yeah, this one, here we go.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So, basically, can you scroll down? I couldn't able to connect the dots, from E2 to the next top layer, right? I got the tail embedded, could you please give me a bit more details, like, in a realistic how I could understand this, transition from one
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: farm to other farm, right? Until that we achieve that results.
Sunny: So, translation for that, basically, will have to be understood in the decoder side also. Actually, it was a complete training phase. Training means what? How? How it was happening?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Si.
Sunny: How the translation training was happening. Let's say this is what… this was my encoder part, this one.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Hmm.
Sunny: And on the other hand, basically, we were having the decoder part. Let's say this is what this one, decoder part.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay?
Sunny: So you're passing one sentence. Let's say my sentence is… What I can write here.
Sunny: No, I can write.
Sunny: Turn on light.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: So this data will go from here.
Sunny: And this will give me the prediction.
Sunny: Light.
Sunny: Shalu?
Sunny: Coral.
Sunny: Right? So, this type of thing was happening using the encoder and decoder. Now, how it was possible? So, first, we were trained the model. Train the model. Okay, so how we were training the model, actually? See, the training mechanism was something like this. We were passing the… inside the encoder, this is the encoder now.
Sunny: So inside the encoder, we were passing this particular sentence. On the decoder, basically, we were passing this sentence.
Sunny: Chalu Karu. Actually, it was a supervised learning.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Hmm.
Sunny: So, what is a supervised learning? Inside the supervised learning, actually, we have two columns now. One is an input column, and one was the output column.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So, first.
Sunny: If we were showing this data to the model. So, in the data, let's suppose we have this sentence.
Sunny: Turn.
Sunny: All right.
Sunny: The output was the light.
Sunny: And what is output? Light.
Sunny: Light.
Sunny: Jalu Korp.
Sunny: Okay, so this is my input, this is my output, so I'm passing input.
Sunny: And on the decoder side, I was passing output.
Sunny: And here, basically, I was doing the prediction.
Sunny: This was a prediction.
Sunny: And after that, we were finding out the loss. Okay, and then we were doing the back propagation again.
Sunny: So, this entire process was happening, that this is called the training of the model.
Sunny: Getting my point. The time of the trading, basically, only we were showing this particular data, and then we were making a prediction, inferencing, basically. Got it?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Hmm.
Sunny: We're large.
Sunny: Got it, huh?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah, so now if you go to that, scroll up, like, into the 6, so to achieve that predictions and interceptions.
Sunny: No, as of now, I didn't tell you that, no. As of now, I've just shown you the encoder process, how encoder is processing the data, that's it.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Hmm.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: So, internal work.
Sunny: of the encoder. Okay, that's it.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Yeah.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, so in this internal procedure, like, you know, first.
Sunny: See, CI written over here, no?
Sunny: Whatever data we are passing, so the data basically will be passed to the decoder, right? So this data will be passed to the decoder for the further process.
Sunny: Multiple encoder, then yes, data will be passed to the next encoder block, and after processing, again, it will be passed to the decoder.
Sunny: And if we are using only decoder-based model, then finally, it will… we will be having one head on top of it. That's… that… that HAD is going to be what? That is going to be a softmax head, or something like that. And after that, whatever prediction we are getting.
Sunny: After that, whatever prediction we are getting, that will be my prediction. Means my final value, that's it.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, I got it. So, whereas the encoding side, we are transmitting the data into different formats. One is, like, kind of Z1, X1, you… you have different formats, right? So, which is required to predict more, or…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: why you need that this many transmissions?
Sunny: data, basically, this is the information, this encoder information. It is going through the decoder inform… decoder, decoder is having the other line of information, okay?
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Hmm.
Sunny: And by after mixing both, using the cross encoder, here, Where it went.
Sunny: Here, the cross encoder will be there, at this particular place. The cross encoder will be there.
Sunny: Okay, and after that, basically, we are making this particular prediction. Don't worry, sir, in upcoming session, you will get a little more clarity, okay, don't worry.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, a bit confusing, like, you know, I got…
Sunny: These are confusing, sir, it is confusing. So just, doing a revision of this session, and in the upcoming session, let my company.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Online, sir, like, it takes 24 hours. Before the next session, will it be available, or… I mean, before tomorrow?
Sunny: See, we don't commit like this. If I'm going to commit again, you will…
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: I know, I know, I'm just asking so that I will revisit this.
Sunny: Mine, the timeline is a 24-hour only, okay.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Okay, okay, I got it. Yeah, I just wanted to just revise this.
Sunny: See, let's say if I'm saying, no, no, it will be available in 12R, then you will ping.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: No, no, no, whatever.
Sunny: Why it is not available,
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Don't worry, I will not respond like that, but just wanted to see…
Sunny: They know you want to ping, but there are several other people who they will definitely ping.
Ethamukkala, Narasaiah: Absolutely. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Susani.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you.
Ramesh: Hi, Sami.
Lakshmi: Thank you so much.
Sunny: Yeah, Lakshmi, then Ramesh? Yeah, Lakshmi.
Lakshmi: Yeah, can I go ahead, Sun?
Sunny: Sorry?
Lakshmi: Can I go ahead?
Sunny: Yeah, yeah, you can go ahead.
Lakshmi: Sunday, actually, it's a very nice.
Lakshmi: Thank you so much for the EVER class.
Lakshmi: And I understand, like, from this class, whatever the decoder architecture.
Lakshmi: that, it is early stage of LLMs, like, whatever the, transformers and, the BERT model, which launched by Google.
Lakshmi: And then later on, the, OpenA launched the GPT, that's based on decoders, I mean, architecture.
Lakshmi: And both of them, so some other LLMs, based on this encoder and decoder, right?
Sunny: Yes, correct. Actually, most of the LLM is based on the decoder only.
Lakshmi: Oh, okay, okay. So, I got, got that. So, I have a few things, from the last… it's a very few and very small things for my understanding, okay?
Lakshmi: So, in the last class, like, we are checking, the evaluation… embedding model, right? Using…
Lakshmi: Different methods, like cosine similarity, dot, and, nuclear distance, right?
Lakshmi: So, actually, we take one model, like, example, what we done, the OpenAI model, then we are performing some kind of operations, like, we give one query, and then we document, then we are, conducted all these methods. So, whatever is done, it's showing good results for the, sim… most similar sentence, but suppose, like.
Lakshmi: we give and how to reduce the heart disease. It is, like, results for similar sentences in the document, right? So, whatever the…
Lakshmi: So,
Lakshmi: My question is, like, this checking, first take one model, then perform all the methods, and checking the results, and then we take other model, and we checking the same thing, so whatever it is gives the results, then we select one model. That is the way I…
Lakshmi: We are taking two models together, and then checking on…
Lakshmi: I'm a little bit confused, but I take one model, and I perform these three things, like OpenAI, then it is showing, like, good results for the similarity sentence, and not, done for the, not similarity sentence.
Niv: And they.
Lakshmi: Again, I take the, Jiminy model. What happened? The Jiminy model giving
Lakshmi: everything good, like, it is similar word or not similar word also. This cosine, similarly, dot product, Euclarian, everything giving the
Lakshmi: good results. So, based on the checking one by one model, then we select the best model for doing any kind of use case, right?
Sunny: Yes, see, I've shown you the multiple models so that, basically, you could be familiar with the other places, other, like, platform also. Okay? Otherwise, I could have shown you the only… I could have shown you only one model, like OpenAI.
Lakshmi: Like, in short.
Sunny: I can…
Lakshmi: That's not my personal.
Sunny: Yeah, I can do all.
Lakshmi: All the uses with that.
Sunny: only. Yeah.
Lakshmi: Okay, one time we take…
Lakshmi: One take one model, then perform with all metrics, and again, we take one more, then we keep on checking, and then we select one.
Sunny: Oh, in that case, also, you can do, actually, okay?
Sunny: Otherwise, you can check the different, leaderboards and all, and there, whichever model is performing well, you can select based on that. Even, we have one MTBA benchmark also, with that also, we can select the best embedding model. Not sure about the.
Lakshmi: Yeah, I'm missing that kind of thing. Actually, my… actually, what I'm, like.
Lakshmi: not getting. So, these models, like Hugging Face, Jimmy, OpenA, whatever the embedding models still now we perform for kind of thing. So, for any kind of use case we can use for this embedding for the similarity check?
Sunny: You will get that memo, okay? Let me come to the other chapter, you will get.
Lakshmi: Okay, so because, actually, these are all models, I checked in the documentation, they're, like, pre-trained using so many, different data sets, so we don't know how can we select our use case. That is, actually, I didn't get it.
Lakshmi: And the other thing is, like, so last time we used one word to back Google News model, right, for the single attaches.
Lakshmi: For the Provac model. So, this model, like, based on the, like, trained so many news of the Google, then this model, is this model we can use for any kind of,
Lakshmi: problem, I mean, use case for a similar feature.
Lakshmi: You excuse me…
Sunny: Okay, ma'am, will come, okay? Again, I'm saying, don't be in hurry. As of now, we are just learning the concept, and I will teach you the project and all. At that time, the use case will come, okay? So please, ma'am, be patient for next one or two months.
Lakshmi: You will get, okay?
Lakshmi: Okay, okay, Samir. Yeah, and actually, one small question.
Lakshmi: So, in the, actually, real time, like, we have a, like, kind of, the data we have, it may be very big size in size. So, usually doing all the building and managing this code and the data and everything, which platform usually they do? Is it on cloud or, like, in VS Code?
Lakshmi: Or in any other platform.
Sunny: The company actually is having their own, like, warehouses, lakes, okay, and the databases and all. So they're keeping, they generally use the cloud services for that, actually.
Sunny: Okay, so they use the databases, based on the system, right, for logging the information and all. If they have any raw data, so they keep it over the SharePoint, they keep it on the different… their self-hosted databases, they keep it in some data lakes, okay? So.
Lakshmi: Hmm…
Sunny: There, only the data is being managed.
Lakshmi: The different events.
Sunny: space. So, what I've.
Lakshmi: Yeah.
Sunny: big enterprises, basically, they are going to be, tied up, like, with a big, organization, right? Like Oracle and the other one, they are managing.
Lakshmi: the data.
Sunny: Or else, basically, they are going to be managing the data on the self-hosted services, right? The different, different, services they have, over the cloud itself. So, like that, they are managing the data, actually.
Sunny: Okay.
Lakshmi: Okay, so the… actually, in the embedding models now, we take the embedding models and we perform the tall… the text to, embedding the vectors.
Lakshmi: So, that… that data, in the real time, we can store in the data storage, then we can later use it for the feeding to the LLM models, like that.
Sunny: Yeah, Bill will unlearn that, ma'am, okay? Please, ma'am.
Sunny: So, again, request to you, please wait for some more time, because I can understand you are a beginner right now.
Lakshmi: You are. Yeah, yeah.
Sunny: I just started the thing, and you wanted to know everything in advance only. So please, ma'am, all the questions will be answered in some days only. You will understand every part of it, okay?
Lakshmi: Okay, Sunny, thank you so much, okay? Yeah, thank you. Bye, Sunny.
Sunny: Okay, next out is Ramesh, or, wait, one person was trying to ask, NIV, what is your name? Sorry, can you please go ahead with your doubt?
Niv: Yeah, it's something.
Sunny: Yo.
Niv: I have only one. Your explanation is very nice and transformer. I can, like, you know, know how the transformer, how encoder, decoder explanation is very nice. I've only wondered, in real time.
Niv: And like, in the research paper, we are using a stacked encoder and decoder with 6, grouping, huh? Intero, may I ask, like, how many encoders and decoders are there in my project?
Niv: like, I can say 6, or it is hyperparameter, like, How much value I can…
Sunny: Yeah, you can say in such a way that, in the original research paper, they have used the 6,
Sunny: And then the different, other, research paper, the encoder-based architecture and the decoder-based architecture, the value was a bit different. Like, in BERT model, BERT-based model, they have used a 6, then BERT bigger model… sorry, 12, then in the BERT, big model, they have used 24.
Sunny: In the GPT model, I've seen, they were using the 12 set of decoder, then in the other, basically, basically other model, they have used the 24, 96, something like that. So overall, basically, it's a hyperparameter value, it's an experimental value. In that way, you can explain, okay? By giving the multiple example, and what is a, like, use of it.
Sunny: And and at the end, you can say it is an experimental value, that's a hyperparameter. Got it?
Niv: They may ask, like, how many, like, how much value I've used, like, in my project, in my…
Niv: A current closet.
Sunny: You can, use any one, sir. Are you creating anything from scratch.
Niv: No, no, no, I'm, like, a data engineer, I'm, like, new to AI, so I'm not sure, like, how much value I can tell. I got, like…
Sunny: See, don't explain, don't say, like, this, 6 encoders, this, that, whatever hyperparameter. You have to frame your answer in a particular way, right? Particular manner, right? In a proper manner. Articulate your words, and
Sunny: Frame your answer, and…
Niv: Explain.
Sunny: Like that, okay?
Niv: Okay.
Sunny: Explain, see, why you are in this class. To learn the value, to say this, that, or all, to earn the knowledge, actually.
Niv: It's looking all.
Sunny: You know, internal…
Sunny: how to, like, frame the answer, learn that thing. This is very much important. Got it?
Niv: Yeah, yeah.
Niv: Yeah, thank you, Sonia, thank you so much.
Sunny: Yeah, thank you. Next out, Ramesh, please go ahead.
Ramesh: Yeah, hi, Sunny. So, now I at least understand the positional encoders and also the self-attention. So, if I give you a small sentence, right.
Ramesh: If we interchange the words, then that's a problem, that's the reason we are using position encoders.
Ramesh: to say the position of each word with respect to the sentence. Similarly, self-attention, right?
Sunny: So…
Ramesh: to understand the relation between each word, so we're giving weightage to each word, so that we'll understand the sentence. If you see the small sentence, we can visualize this, so how real-time the data will be store… the maximum amount of data, right? How they will be trained, like, in the files, or some files, it would be,
Ramesh: trained, or how it will be trained, actually, because why I'm asking this question is, if you're saying it's one sentence, the varieties would be related to that sentence. If you… if you give one file.
Ramesh: The weightage will be related to that, fine. But in real time, how that will be trained? So, there is a confusion there, I'm not able to get that.
Sunny: Sorry, what you are asking, I didn't get that.
Ramesh: So, in case of, suppose if we are trading some small sentence, right? Now, we are giving positions to the sentence, and also, each word, we are giving the weightage to each word.
Ramesh: But in real time, we are,
Ramesh: We are training a massive amount of data, right?
Sunny: Hmm?
Ramesh: So, at that time, how we are… so, are we sending all the data at once, or how we are sending that?
Sunny: In a same way, sir, either you are passing one sentence with the five words, or you are passing one sentence with the 5 lag words, the process would be same here.
Sunny: Actually.
Ramesh: Okay, but in the real data engineer or something, right, who will train the model, how they will be passing, I mean, what are the criteria they will be using to pass the model, like, sentence by sentence, or it's, like, PDF by PDF.
Sunny: Parallel data will be passed, or metrics multiplication would be there.
Sunny: This entire data will be passed as a sales… one metrics, actually.
Sunny: Okay.
Ramesh: Okay.
Sunny: No.
Ramesh: Thanks.
Sunny: Thank you.
Ashish Nayak: Hi, Sunny, can I go next?
Sunny: Yeah, you can go.
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, thanks, thanks for, walking through the transform architecture, it's very well explained. So I have, like, a couple of questions. One is, at the beginning of the architecture, we started with, embedding vectors, and then after the self-attention layer, we just…
Ashish Nayak: switched from a vector representation to a metric representation. Any specific reason why we switched from a vector to a metric?
Sunny: No, I just shown you, basically, I just shown you how the data will be passed to that particular model.
Sunny: Okay? So… Either you can, pass as an individual vector just for your understanding, or…
Sunny: you can showcase it as a, like, the complete metrics. But at the end, it is a metrics operation, sir. In backend, the matrix is.
Ashish Nayak: Okay.
Sunny: Okay.
Ashish Nayak: So, so the embedding vectors that we were generating, it's also itself a matrix?
Sunny: Correct, correct.
Ashish Nayak: Okay, okay. And the other point I have, like, a little bit confusion around the feed-forward neural network.
Ashish Nayak: So you mentioned, like, it's a supervised… I mean, it's being used to perform supervised learning, and then you have also mentioned, like, its overall purpose is to, understand the nonlinear relationships among all this embedding data, right?
Ashish Nayak: So,
Ashish Nayak: so usually when we train a neural network, we usually have to pass all those hyperparameters. So, in this scenario, like, how they would have… I mean, or how they identified the right hyperparameters, to… because…
Sunny: Again, we use this algorithm only for that, grid search CV, random search CV, or CAS-based library and all. With that, we can find it out. We can provide the multiple value of the multiple layers and all, and we can identify the best and possible hyperparameter among all those different parameters.
Ashish Nayak: The challenge here is, like, the supervised learning, it's either, like, regression, classification, or more, like, so in this scenario, it's neither of that. It's around, like, understanding the more nonlinear aspect… non-linear relationship aspect among these different words, right? So…
Sunny: Means, see, nonlinear expect means what? In that supervised learning also, we are… sorry, in that classification regression also, we are doing the same only. Non-linear expect only, we are going to be find out, and with that, we are checking which would be the my final output. Okay, let's say we are going to be predict cat.
Sunny: Or dog. Okay, so the data, basically, which we are going to be decoding using the neural network, it is the same thing. We are going to be finding out the nonlinear pattern only from the data. And here, also, we are doing the same thing. So we are going to be predicting the next token, next word, or we are going to be translate the data word by words, okay?
Sunny: So, the same thing. The data is being passed, non-needier relationship is being captured, and behalf on that only, the next token is being predicted. That's it.
Ashish Nayak: So the output of this, is, because we also use, one more, residual network, so we, it seems like we are bringing our embedding, embedding output, from the…
Ashish Nayak: Self-attention, and then we are also generating this, feed-forward neural network output, and then combining together and adding one more,
Sunny: Retro connection.
Ashish Nayak: my legacy, right? So, so…
Ashish Nayak: So, it means, like, whatever our initial context we had, we are still retaining that context, and then the output from this feed-forward will be adding more.
Sunny: You're listening.
Ashish Nayak: That we are combining.
Sunny: Yes, means we are… what we wanted to keep as… as super as… as super information as, like, we can, right? As rich info, we can, basically, at that place. So that's why we are adding that residential network, okay?
Sunny: So, whatever researcher had done, they… I'm just teaching that. I don't know why they just did that. Let's say at that time, I was a researcher there, so maybe I was not using this residual connection.
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, yeah. So now my next question is when they go with, like, a stacking encoders, right? So now the final output of
Ashish Nayak: one layer of encoder, when it becomes the input of the second layer, so now whatever the context it has learned, and all this nonlinear relationship it has learned, now this, when it being passed as another input to the next encoder layer.
Ashish Nayak: So, here, what additional information it's going to generate, because it's already had generated the positional encoder and.
Sunny: Same, same information will be passed, sir. Same information, again, will be processed through that layer, actually.
Ashish Nayak: Okay, because I… I mean, here, if you see, when we.
Sunny: No, here, basically, I've shown you this with very small sentences, but if we have a large, huge sentence, let's say in one sentence, we have 1,000 words, so that is a quite huge sentence. Maybe with one encoder block, we will not be able to sustain the
Sunny: Same info… this will not be able to sustain the proper context, right? So that's why we pass it from the multiple decoder and the encoder layers, actually. Got it?
Ashish Nayak: Yeah, so it's already a very complex architecture, and then when we add, like, multiple layers of encoders on top of it, so how we can determine at what would be the optimal layer of encoders to achieve a certain task?
Sunny: Experiment, sir, everything experiment. Okay, now tell me why India is not having their own LLM. Tell me.
Ashish Nayak: Mmm…
Sunny: No, sir, it is an expensive process, sir. No. Okay. Every country cannot do it, sir.
Sunny: This kind of experiment is very heavy, very costly. Billions of money… billions of, like, dollar will go there in their experiment only.
Sunny: Entire world is using the AI. Only few companies, two to three companies, are creating an AI.
Ashish Nayak: Am I right?
Sunny: 5-10K people. entire world is using.
Sunny: experiments ke liye.
Sunny: mein.
Sunny: need hai.
Sunny: People are envisioning the future, like we are move… like we moved from coal to oil to renewable energy, right? So, people are moving from that system to the AI to the advanced AI, actually.
Sunny: That is a, like, interpretation of one research paper, but it's Kuper jojo application banhe LLM bane hai, whatever, experiment happened, GPT model, this, that, and all. It's a very complex process, and it's a money-consuming, actually. Okay?
Ashish Nayak: Okay, yeah, all good, thank you.
Sunny: No, thank…
Bharathi K: Hello?
Sunny: Yeah, Bhardi, please go ahead.
Bharathi K: Sunny, is my voice clear? And, like, you're able to hear it properly?
Sunny: Yeah, I can hear you.
Bharathi K: Yes, thank you. Thank you, Sunny, for this, session, which is giving me very clarity on how to implement this model, or even the beginning basics thing. But, I have something out of the, out of the… my company car one problem. One is that, there was a hackathon which is there, and, we are actually working on one small
Bharathi K: Problem statements which they have given.
Bharathi K: So, I just need a little bit of guidance over there, and, it is like, like this, that, we have to prepare a medical assistant, in, like, one, in that medical assistant, we need to, give them these appointments kind of a thing, and also, we need to, train the, like, you know, I mean, fine-tune the menstrual model.
Bharathi K: So,
Bharathi K: I just need a little bit of guidance, because, I mean, where from can we get this medical data to fine-tune this minstrel model, or should I just pull down some information with respect to the medical data in some PDF and do it as a RAG? Which one seems to be good, or which is the right direction that I'll have to go?
Sunny: First, I think you can try with a rag, actually.
Sunny: Okay. Okay. If you're not getting a correct answer, then you can fine-tune the model, and on top of it, again, you can build a rag. Okay?
Bharathi K: Okay.
Sunny: So you can use the hybrid approach. Got it?
Bharathi K: Hybrid, yes, hybrid with RAG plus, this one, right?
Sunny: Point tuning plus rag, yeah.
Bharathi K: fine-tuning plus flag. And, one more thing is, if I have to get this data, I mean, I see that there are some free, websites which provide this data. I mean, should I… should we pull it from there? And what I see is they don't give it normal, like, table data. I think they are giving it in some JSON format.
Bharathi K: See, that's how I need to get it, or is there any website that you can suggest to pull in some data for the medical side?
Sunny: Sorry I didn't get that.
Bharathi K: Sorry,
Bharathi K: I am just looking forward for some sample data. I mean, how to get the sample data, because I'm seeing some free websites, but when I'm trying to download, they're all in the JSON format. I mean, that is how we need to upload it, and we need to do it, or is there any other method to get it, get things done for this?
Sunny: Ma'am, what kind of data you want, actually? In medical, right? So, there could be, like, different… other… multiple kind of data, right? So…
Bharathi K: Yes.
Sunny: At least, actually, what kind of data you want?
Bharathi K: what kind of a data, in the sense, like, see, if they give some kind of an, symptoms, suppose, like, you know, I mean, this kind of a symptom is there, and so, this could be the, the precaution, I mean, like, you know, I mean, this kind of a, treatment, or this kind of a medication.
Bharathi K: something, like, basic things, no. Okay, because anyways, in-depth things, I think that goes in another way, but for those basic things that they're going to give, what kind of suggestions that the medical assistant can give for this kind of.
Sunny: So, yeah, so see, what you can do now, this same prompt, you can go to the cloud or chat GPT, okay? So it will create a dummy data for you. Or else do one thing, Hugging Face is having one library, dataset library, or data set hub. Just check out over there if this kind of data is available over there or not. Got it?
Sunny: So I think you will get some inbuilt data over the Hugging Face dataset only, because it is an open source, and there is lacks of data available. Got it?
Bharathi K: Okay, and if I get that data, I mean, how should I load it? I mean, like, if I'll have to load it into that, should I use Azure Tables, or should I use it in the fabric, and then create a data agent there and use it in my Azure Foundry?
Sunny: First you take a data, then transform it according to your platform or requirement, okay? It is possible you can do it, okay?
Bharathi K: Okay, so it… we have this environment, I mean, like, we have Fabric, and as well as this Azure Foundry, we have this environment given by the Microsoft, so I will load it first into the Fabric, will that make sense, or is it right?
Sunny: according to the Azure platform, right? Just transform that and keep it there, right? Then you can use it via Cloud Foundry or from any places, from any other places, okay? So, of the Azure. So, just take a data, transform it, and keep it there, right? That's it.
Bharathi K: Okay, and, one more thing is, if I'll have to create this, I mean, like, creating appointments, so the API which I have seen is,
Bharathi K: Graph API? I mean, like, I mean, I didn't… I mean, do you have some suggestions on that? Is that the only way to create appointments or something? I mean, is there anything.
Sunny: Which appointment? Sorry?
Bharathi K: I mean, for example, they will ask for an, like, medical appointment, right, for a doctor.
Bharathi K: So, they'll have to check the previous appointments for that particular day, and they'll have to send them an email telling that, yeah, your appointment is done for so-and-so time. So, something like that.
Sunny: So you can create some agentic system on top of it. I also created one project on my YouTube channel, just search Sunny Sabitha Multi-Agent project.
Sunny: You will get that, okay?
Bharathi K: Sure, I'll, see to that. Thank you so much, Sandy, for your input.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Your next doubt is, anyone having any doubt?
Charles Fon: Yes, I've been standing for long.
Sunny: Yo.
Sunny: Charles.
Charles Fon: Yes, I want to share my screen, because my codes for the last class is now running, because it's complaining that,
Charles Fon: Mine.
Charles Fon: My API, my API key is wrong.
Charles Fon: But…
Sunny: You can, join as a panelist, okay?
Sunny: Yeah, Doipal, what's your doubt?
Dwipal: Are you assuming?
Dwipal: I have doubt related to decoder, architecture and, RAD.
Dwipal: So, you said that, decoder models are used to do predict,
Dwipal: Prediction, on next pitched, right?
Charles Fon: as well.
Dwipal: So… So this next word will be predicted based on the data it is trained on.
Dwipal: Hmm, right.
Dwipal: But in red, we add extra information.
Dwipal: Which, it is not, and unless it is… the model is still 2024 only.
Dwipal: But we are asking in 2026 that, these are the news I found, and summarize it.
Dwipal: So, how it can… how it works?
Dwipal: That way, because it does… it does not, train on that particular data.
Dwipal: But still, it is able to reply.
Sunny: We are showing the context now, actually.
Sunny: Model is that much clever, right? So it can understand the context, and based on that context, it is generating answer, okay?
Sunny: Let's say you're talking to the chat GPT.
Sunny: And you're saying to the chat GPT, answer every question in Spanish language, right?
Sunny: So you set the context of the model.
Sunny: So what model will do?
Sunny: what that system will do, it will contain the memory. It will look into the memory, it will look into the context of the chat, and behalf on that only, it will generate the next answer. Same thing we are doing in a RAG also. First, we are setting the context of the model, and behalf of that context only, we are asking a question. Let's say you ask a question.
Sunny: Right? To the model, and along with that, you are saying, okay, answer this question, and take a help of this particular context. So model is understanding the entire context, and regenerating the answer.
Sunny: Si.
Sunny: decoder, prediction, training, whatever you're assuming, that is a training phase, actually. So, LLM training phase is a little different. We haven't reached onto that part.
Sunny: In LLM training phase, what happened? First, pre-training happened, then supervised fine-tuning happened, and on top of it, preference alignment happened. So, three stages of the training is there with respect to the same model, the same decoder architecture which you're seeing, right?
Sunny: So, next token prediction, it is fine. It is a pre-training only, but apart from that, we have a supervised fine-tuning, and then preference alignment, right? And it is on a very huge dataset. Huge Matlam.
Sunny: Just saying, the first GPT model was trained on 45 terabytes of data.
Sunny: Right? So now, whatever model you are seeing, it is trained on a petawyte of data, right? So it is a very huge data set. That's why model knowledge is very high, and it can understand any sort of a context, and it can generate anything based on that particular context, okay?
Sunny: Yeah.
Sunny: You will understand the upcoming session, don't worry.
Dwipal: Uncle.
Sunny: Okay, the part is done. Yes, Charles, what's your doubt?
Charles Fon: Yeah, I'm trying to share my screen. Let me just come…
Charles Fon: I don't do the machine is too slow.
Charles Fon: Let me open my VAscope.
Sunny: What is your error? I cannot see that.
Charles Fon: Yeah, let it come out, because, some of the codes are now running.
Charles Fon: Then, when I check on ChatGPT, it's telling me that, my… My API key is wrong.
Charles Fon: But those key…
Sunny: Generate the correct API, no, sir? Generate the correct API key. Where is your API key? Show me the API key.
Charles Fon: Okay, let me shoot you.
Sunny: Where is your API key?
Charles Fon: I'm not sure you know.
Sunny: No, so main.env file, so main.env file.
Charles Fon: Okay, dot A, okay.
Sunny: Oh, this is your API key. No? What is the issue?
Sunny: Remove this import OS from here, remove the import OS.
Sunny: Import OS… First line, import OS.
Charles Fon: Okay, I should remove it.
Sunny: Remove that.
Charles Fon: I'm gonna try to minimize this one, I don't know why.
Sunny: Now, read this API key inside your IPvindv file.
Charles Fon: Come again?
Sunny: Now read this API key inside your IPYNB file. Open the IPYNB file.
Sunny: And read this API key.
Sunny: And where you kept this .env file, huh?
Sunny: Inside the… inside the environment folder, why? Keep it outside, keep it outside.
Charles Fon: You should take it outside.
Sunny: Yeah, keep it outside. Cut it from there and keep it outside.
Charles Fon: I know.
Sunny: or run it, open your IPYNV file now.
Sunny: Open your IPONV file.
Sunny: Yeah, now load the keys and all. Do it again.
Charles Fon: is still loading,
Sunny: Load the key, sir, and see you written a wrong name.
Sunny: Here you return the caps letter, and there you are writing in a small letter, Google API key and all.
Sunny: So, just write in a correct way. Google API key, OpenAI key, and should be in a caps letter, okay?
Charles Fon: Okay, okay.
Sunny: If you do it, it will be barking, okay?
Charles Fon: Okay, good.
Sunny: Yeah.
Charles Fon: Okay, no problem.
Charles Fon: Okay, thank you.
Sunny: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, fine guys, I am going to be close the session now,
Sunny: So, Shant is having any doubts. Susanth, do you have any doubt?
Sushanta Saha: I just want to, know the ideal, system configuration, especially if we want to do, you know, corporate level or, you know, organization-level, Gen AI and IGT guy, related projects.
Sunny: JNA Agent AI project you can create on a basic system also, sir.
Sunny: Okay.
Sunny: Until model training is not involved, you can use the basic system only. So just make sure that you have three things inside your system. First, good RAM, around 32GB of RAM, good processor, then you can take Ryzen 9 or iE9, Ryzen, right? Ryzen is also providing a…
Sunny: Ryzen 9 or 10, right, whatever is there, AMD, and then Intel i9 or i10.
Sunny: And then you can take a good SSD, right? At least 1TB of SSD. Gpu-wise, it's fine. If you have, then it is okay. If you don't have, then it is also fine.
Sunny: Understood?
Sushanta Saha: That'll, be good for any kind of projects, like…
Sunny: Yeah, any kind of project, correct. You can run that project, because the model for Agentech project, for Rag-based project, for GenA project, mostly we are going to be read LLM from the different APIs and all, okay? And if you are going to be read the LLM using OLAMI and all, so with 32GB of RAM, you can easily do that practice, right?
Sunny: So, that is not a case. So, for your personal use, for Gen AI Agentic AI project.
Sunny: Your CPU should be good, your RAM should be good, your processor should be good, and you should have some memory inside your system, that's it, nothing else, okay?
Sushanta Saha: Cheers.
Sushanta Saha: Thank you.
Sunny: Okay, guys, bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class, thank you, good night.